Item 1A. Risk Factors. Choice Hotels International, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to various risks, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider these risk factors together with all other information included in our publicly filed documents. We are subject to the operating risks common in the lodging and franchising industries. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fees based on room revenues at hotels franchised under our brands. As such, our business is subject, directly or through our franchisees, to the following risks common in the lodging and franchising industry, among others: • changes in the number of hotels operating under franchised brands; • changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various lodging industry price categories; • changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels; • desirability of hotel geographic location; • travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious disease such as the H1N1 flu virus (“swine flu”); 23 Table of Contents • changes in general and local economic and market conditions, which can adversely affect the level of business and leisure travel, and therefore the demand for lodging and related services; • changes in governmental regulations such as the “the Employee Free Choice Act”, that could increase the likelihood of a union obtaining recognition and possibly result in increased operating costs for our franchisees; • level of consumer unemployment; • increases in costs due to inflation may not be able to be totally offset by increases in room rates; • conversely, if the economy experiences deflation, which is defined as a persistent decline in the general price level of goods and services, franchisees may be required to lower their room rates which would result in lower revenues to the Company. In addition, there is no guarantee that the Company could reduce its costs at the same pace as revenue declines leading to a reduction in operating profits; • over-building in one or more sectors of the hotel industry and/or in one or more geographic regions, could lead to excess supply compared to demand, and to decreases in hotel occupancy and/or room rates; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • changes in travel patterns; • changes in governmental regulations that influence or determine wages, prices or construction costs; • travel restrictions (whether security-related or otherwise) imposed by governmental authorities that have the effect of discouraging or limiting travel to and from certain jurisdictions; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, lending, privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, climate change, employment and regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • other unpredictable external factors, such as acts of God, war, terrorist attacks, epidemics, airline strikes, transportation and fuel price increases and severe weather may reduce business and leisure travel or reduce the number of hotels open and operating within our system; • increases in the cost of human capital, energy, healthcare, insurance and other operating expenses resulting in lower operating margins; • the financial condition of franchisees and travel related companies; • franchisors’ ability to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees; and • changes in exchange rates or sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. (affecting domestic travel) and internationally could also unfavorably impact future results. The current general economic recession and the slowdown in the lodging industry may continue to impact our financial results and growth. The present economic recession and the uncertainty over its depth and duration will continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. Accordingly, we are experiencing reduced demand for the hotel rooms of our franchisees and therefore our financial results have been impacted and we expect that our future financial results and growth will be further harmed while the recession continues. In addition, the length and breadth of the economic slowdown could impact the financial health of our franchisees resulting in increased business failures and as a result may lead to the loss of hotel rooms from our franchise system resulting in lower fees generated. 24 Table of Contents Continuing economic and credit market conditions may result in a reduction in the number of new franchise agreements. Based on the continued uncertainty around the current economic and credit market conditions, we expect the number of franchise applications received and therefore the number of new franchise agreements executed to remain below levels achieved in the most recent pre-economic recessionary periods. We believe this trend is likely to continue while the lodging industry experiences negative operating conditions and the availability of hotel financing continues to be limited. During prior lodging industry downturns, we have experienced an increase in the number of new domestic franchise agreements from conversion hotels. While we believe that a greater percentage of new contracts will result from conversion hotel agreements, the length and breadth of the current economic crisis and the disruption of the credit markets could result in a prolonged downturn in the number of both conversion and new construction hotel contracts executed. This trend could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Acquisition and development of new brands and markets. We will consider acquisitions of new brands that complement our current portfolio of brands as well as expansion of our brands in international markets. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable financial metrics than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition candidates, acceptable new markets or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated or new markets entered, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. We have developed and launched two new hotel brands, Cambria Suites and Ascend Collection, and may develop and launch additional brands in the future. In addition, we plan to expand the distribution of existing brands in certain international markets. There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of these brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that the cost incurred to develop the brands or expand the international markets, including advances for marketing and reservations activities, will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands or markets will be realized. We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity, epidemics and war. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters and/or epidemics, terrorist activities and acts of war affecting locations where we have a high concentration of franchisees and areas of the world from which our franchisees draw a large number of guests. Some types of losses, such as from terrorism and acts of war may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not grow our franchise system or we may lose business by failing to compete effectively. Our operational and growth prospects depend on the strength and desirability of our brands. We believe that hotel operators choose lodging franchisors based primarily on the value and quality of each franchisor’s brand and services, the extent to which affiliation with that franchisor may increase the hotel operator’s reservations and profits, and the franchise fees charged. Demographic, economic or other changes in markets may adversely affect the desirability of our brands and, correspondingly, the number of hotels franchised under the Choice brands. We compete with other lodging companies for franchisees. As a result, the terms of new franchise agreements may not be as favorable as our current franchise agreements. This competition may reduce or change 25 Table of Contents fee structures, or make greater use of financial incentives such as loans and guarantees to acquire franchisees. This may potentially cause us to respond by charging lower fees or increasing our use of financial incentives, which may impact our margins. New competition may emerge using different business models with a lesser reliance on franchise fees. In addition, an excess supply of hotel rooms or unfavorable borrowing conditions may discourage potential franchisees from constructing new hotels, thereby limiting a source of growth of the franchise fees received by us. In addition, each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international markets and with independent companies in regional markets. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing our products and services from those offered by our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could adversely affect our market share and our results of operations. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels or their representative franchisee associations that we franchise. Our responsibilities under the franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. Such disagreements may be more likely as hotel returns are depressed as a result of the current economic recession. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners, however, failure to resolve such disagreements could result in litigation. We may not achieve our objectives for growth in the number of franchised hotels. The number of properties and rooms franchised under our brands significantly affects our results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels: • the ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to a Choice brand, include, among others: • the availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel; • the cost and availability of suitable hotel locations; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which construction can be delayed due to, among other reasons, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and • securing required governmental permits. • our ability to continue to enhance our reservation, operational and service delivery systems to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner; • our formal impact policy, which offers franchisees protection from the opening of a same-brand property within a specified distance, may adversely impact our growth potential; • the effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization; • our failure to introduce new brands that gain market acceptance, may adversely impact our unit growth potential; • our dependence on our independent franchisees’ skills and access to financial resources necessary to open the desired number of hotels; 26 Table of Contents • our ability to attract and retain qualified domestic and international franchisees; and • we are currently planning to expand our international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may by affected by local economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted and our common stock price may decline. Contract terms for new hotel franchises may be less favorable. The terms of the franchise agreements for new or conversion hotels are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors at the time these agreements are entered into. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that contracts for new hotel franchises entered into or renewed in the future will be on terms that are as favorable to us as those under our existing agreements. Under certain circumstances our franchisees may terminate our franchise contracts. We franchise hotels to third parties pursuant to franchise agreements. These agreements may be terminated, renegotiated or expire but typically have an initial term of either 10 or 20 years. These agreements also contain provisions permitting the franchisee to terminate their agreement after five, ten or fifteen years under certain circumstances and depending on the particular hotel brand that is licensed to the franchisee. While our franchise agreements provide for liquidated damages to be paid to us by franchisees whose agreements have been terminated as the result of a violation of the provisions of the agreement, these damage amounts are typically less than the fees we would have received if the terminated franchisee fulfilled its contractual obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace expired or terminated franchise agreements, or that the provisions of renegotiated or new agreements will be as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. Deterioration in the general financial condition of our franchisees may adversely affect our results. Our operating results are impacted by the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines, such as the current economic environment, may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees. These negative operating conditions could result in the financial failure of our owners and result in a termination of the franchisee for non-payment of franchise fees or require the transfer of ownership of the franchise. In those instances where ownership is transferred, there can be no assurances that the new owners will choose to affiliate with our brands. The hotel industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the level of service, quality of accommodations, convenience of locations and room rates. Our franchisees compete for guests with other hotel properties in their geographic markets. Some of their competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than our franchisees, and they may construct new facilities or improve their existing facilities, reduce their prices or expand and improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our franchisees operating results and financial condition. These factors, among others, could adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees and result in declines in the number of franchised properties and/or franchise fees and other revenues derived from our franchising business. In addition, at times, the Company provides financial support to our franchisees via notes and guarantees. Factors that may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of these franchisees may result in the Company incurring losses related to this financial support. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to recover advances for marketing and reservation activities. The Company is obligated to use the marketing and reservation fees it collects from the current franchisees comprising its various hotel brands to provide marketing and reservation services appropriate to support the operation of the overall system. In discharging its obligation to provide sufficient and appropriate marketing and reservation services, the Company has the right to expend funds in an amount reasonably necessary to ensure the provision of such services, regardless of whether or not such amount is currently available to the Company for reimbursement. As a result, expenditures by the Company in support of marketing and reservation services in excess of available marketing and reservation fees are recorded as a receivable in the Company’s financial statements. Under the terms of these agreements, the Company has the legally enforceable right to assess and collect from its current franchisees, fees sufficient to pay for the marketing and reservation services the Company has procured for the benefit of the franchise system, including fees to reimburse the Company for past services rendered. The Company’s current franchisees are legally obligated to pay any assessment the Company imposes on them to obtain reimbursement of any marketing and reservation advances regardless of whether the franchisees continue to generate gross room revenue. However, our ability to recover these receivables may be adversely impacted by certain factors, including, among others, declines in the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us, lower than expected franchise system growth of certain brands and/or lower than expected international franchise system growth. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines or a decline in the number of hotel rooms in our franchise system could result in the generation of insufficient funds to recover marketing and reservation advances as well as meet the ongoing marketing and reservation needs of the overall system. Our franchisees may fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, preference for our brands and our reputation could suffer or our franchise agreements with those parties could terminate. Our portfolio primarily consists of franchised properties governed under the terms of franchise agreements. Substantially all of these agreements require property owners to comply with standards that are essential to maintaining our brand integrity and reputation. We depend on our franchisees to comply with these requirements by maintaining and improving properties through investments, including investments in furniture, fixtures, amenities and personnel. Franchisees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our franchise agreements. If our franchisees fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties we franchise, our brand preference and reputation could suffer. In addition, if franchisees breach the terms of our agreements with them, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate our revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these relationships. These risks become more pronounced during economic downturns. Increasing use of internet reservation channels may decrease loyalty to our brands or otherwise adversely affect us. A significant percentage of hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries. If such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our franchisees or us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality at the expense of brand identification. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations systems rather than to our lodging brands. If this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. We have established agreements with many key third party websites to limit transaction fees for hotels but we currently do not have agreements with several large internet travel 28 Table of Contents intermediaries. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these agreements, upon their expiration, with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. We are dependent upon our employees’ ability to manage our growth. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts and skills of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. We and our franchisees are reliant upon technology. The lodging industry depends upon the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for reservation systems, property management, procurement, operation of our customer loyalty programs and administrative systems. The operation of many of these systems is dependent upon third party data communication networks and software upgrades, maintenance and support. These technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such technology. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Further, there can be no assurance that disruptions of the operation of these systems will not occur as a result of failures related to our internal or third party systems and support. Our international operations are subject to special political and monetary risks. We have franchised properties open and operating in over 30 countries and territories outside of the United States. We also have investments in foreign hotel franchisors. International operations generally are subject to political and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. In certain countries, these risks include the risk of war or civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization. In addition, the laws of some international jurisdictions do not adequately protect our intellectual property and restrict the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the right and ability of non-U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, revenues from international jurisdictions typically are earned in local currencies, which subjects us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. We are subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to the following risks, among others: • the risk that cash flows from operations or available lines of credit will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest when due; • the risk that (to the extent we maintain floating rate indebtedness) interest rates increase; • our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if required; • the availability and cost of capital may limit our ability to refinance our existing revolving debt obligations; and 29 Table of Contents • our existing debt agreements contain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, sell assets or engage in mergers. If we do not comply with these covenants, or do not repay our debt on time, we would be in default under our debt agreements. Unless any such default is waived by our lenders, the debt could become immediately payable and this would have a material adverse impact on us. While we currently maintain an investment grade credit rating by both of the major rating agencies, there can be no assurance we will be able to maintain this rating. In the event of a downgrade in our credit rating, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs. Anti-takeover provisions may prevent a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation, the staggered terms of our board of directors and the Delaware General Corporation Law each contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a party to acquire, and may discourage a party from attempting to acquire control of our Company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could discourage tender offers or other bids for our common stock at a premium over market price. The concentration of share ownership may influence the outcome of certain matters. The concentration of share ownership by our directors and affiliates allows them to substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the elections of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as equity compensation plans. Government regulation could impact our business. The Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could impact our business. There can be no assurance that the periodic evaluation of our internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will not result in the identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that our auditors will be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply may have consequences on our business including, but not limited to, increased risks of financial statement misstatements, SEC sanctions and negative capital market reactions. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation filed by or against us, including, remedies or damage awards. This litigation may include, but is not limited to, actions or negligence by franchisees outside of our control. We are not liable for the actions of our franchisees; however, there is no guarantee that we would be insulated from liability in all cases. 30 Table of Contents Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We rely on our systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation systems. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the systems’ function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. The weakening of our trademarks and other intellectual property could impact our business. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual property are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. We generate, maintain, license and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We use our intellectual property rights to protect development activities, to protect our good name, to promote our brand name recognition, to enhance our competitiveness and to otherwise support our business goals and objectives. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and in the international jurisdictions in which we operate. If the Company fails to maintain compliance with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, the Company’s ability to process or transmit credit card data could be adversely impacted and expose the Company to fines, litigation or other expenses. Instability in the credit markets may impact the ability of our franchisees to expand or construct new locations. One aspect of our growth strategy is the ability of our franchisees to expand or open new franchises and to operate those franchises on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new locations could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. Recently, the credit markets have experienced instability, resulting in 31 Table of Contents declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. Many of our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to expand and or renovate existing locations or construct and open new hotels. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. Development activities that involve our co-investment or financing and guaranty support for third parties may result in exposure to losses. As a result of our program to make financial support available to developers in the form of loans, credit support, such as guarantees, and equity investment, we are subject to investment and credit risks that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, when we make loans to franchisees, agree to provide loan guarantees for the benefit of franchisees, or make equity investments in franchisees, we are subject to all generally applicable credit and investment risks, such as (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) the possibility that developers could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours; and (3) that the conditions within capital markets may limit the ability of franchisees to raise additional debt or equity that may be required for completion of projects. In addition to general credit and capital market risks, we face specific risks stemming from our ability to assess the existing and future financial strength of the franchisee and its principals, the development/construction abilities of the franchisee, the expected performance of the hotel in light of the forecasted general, regional and market-specific economic climate, and the ability to negotiate for, value, and if necessary collect security for our loans or obligations. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before providing financial support, if we do not accurately assess these risks, our assumptions used to make these estimates prove inaccurate, or situations in the credit market or hospitality industry change in a manner we did not anticipate, our loans and investments may become impaired and/or we may be required to make payment under guarantees we have issued. In such instances, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover any or all of such impaired or paid amounts, in which case we will experience losses which could be material. Development activities that involve our investment in real estate to stimulate the development of new brands may result in exposure to losses The Company has recently begun a program to identify real estate for potential developers to acquire and be utilized for Cambria Suites development. The Company’s intent is to identify potential development sites so that developers may acquire the site and commence construction of a Cambria Suites. However, in certain circumstances, the Company may be required to acquire the real estate prior to identifying a potential developer for the project. As a result, we may be subject to the investment risk that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, we face specific risks stemming from our (1) our ability to assess the fair market value of the real estate; (2) the location’s suitability for development as a Cambria Suites; (3) the availability of zoning or other local approvals needed for development; and (4) availability and pricing of capital. Although we actively seek to minimize these risks prior to acquiring real estate, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover the cost of our investment in which case we will experience losses which could be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 