ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Highly-Regulated Field in Which We Operate If our U.S. schools fail to comply with the extensive federal regulatory requirements for school operations in the educational services industry, we could incur financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, loss of federal and state financial aid funding for our students, or loss of our authorization to operate our U.S. schools. Federal regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases of the operations of our U.S. schools and those of our competitors, including educational program offerings, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, financial aid to students, acquisitions of or opening new institutions, addition of new educational programs, and changes in corporate structure and ownership. The U.S. Department of Education (“ED”) is our primary federal regulator, pursuant to the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended and as reauthorized by the Higher Education Opportunity Act signed into law on August 14, 2008 (“HEOA”). A significant portion of our U.S.-based students rely on student aid and loan programs under Title IV of HEA (“Title IV Programs”) and we derive a substantial portion of our revenue and cash flows from the Title IV Programs. All of our U.S. schools participate in Title IV Programs and so are subject to extensive regulation by the ED, various state agencies and accrediting commissions. To participate in Title IV Programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED, and be certified by the ED as an eligible institution. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by the ED as a main campus and any of its branch campuses or additional locations. The following are some of the most significant regulatory requirements and risks related to governmental and accrediting body oversight of our schools: • Student Loan Default Rates. Our U.S. schools may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are greater than the standards set by the ED. If the rates at which our former students default on repaying their federally guaranteed or federally funded students loans exceed ED-specified percentages, one or more of our schools could lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs for several years or be placed on provisional certification status by the ED. • Financial Responsibility Standards and Return and Refunds of Title IV Funds. We may be required to post a letter of credit or accept other limitations, including operating restrictions, to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we or our schools do not meet the ED’s financial responsibility standards or if our schools do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. The ED applies its quantitative financial responsibility tests annually based on the school’s audited financial statements and may apply the tests if a school undergoes a change in control or other circumstances. The ED also may apply the tests to us, as the parent company of our schools, and to other related entities. The ED’s operating restrictions include transferring institutions to a cash-monitoring system or reimbursement instead of the ED’s standard advance funding of Title IV funds, which may result in a significant delay in receiving the funds. • “90-10 Rule.” Any of our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if, on a cash basis, the percentage of the U.S. school’s cash receipts derived from Title IV Programs for two consecutive fiscal years is greater than 90%. Under HEA’s “90-10 Rule,” a proprietary school that fails to derive at least 10% of its cash receipts from non-Title IV sources at the end of a fiscal year will be placed on provisional participation status for two fiscal years. If the school does not satisfy the 90-10 rule for two consecutive fiscal years, it loses its eligibility to participate in the Title IV Programs for at least one fiscal year. If a school violates the 90-10 Rule and became ineligible to participate in Title IV 28 Table of Contents Programs but continues to disburse Title IV Program funds, the ED would require the school to repay all Title IV Program funds received by it after the effective date of the loss of eligibility. • Administrative Capability. We may be required to accept limitations to continue our U.S. schools’ participation in Title IV Programs if we fail to satisfy the ED’s administrative capability standards, covering staffing, procedures for disbursing and safeguarding Title IV funds, and reporting and other procedural matters. If a school fails to meet these criteria, the ED may require repayment of previously disbursed Title IV funds, place the school on provisional certification status, or transfer the school from the ED’s advance funding arrangement to another funding program, impose fines, or limit or terminate the school’s participation in Title IV Programs. • Restrictions on Incentive Payments. Our U.S. schools are subject to sanctions if payments of impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments are made to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. • Eligibility and Certification Procedures. From time to time certain of our schools may be on provisional certification with ED related to a failure to maintain eligibility for Title IV Programs under ED’s criteria discussed above. Any such failure of our schools to maintain eligibility for Title IV programs could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The current negotiated rulemaking by the ED could result in regulatory changes that materially and adversely affect our business. Any changes in ED’s regulations could affect the ability of our students to obtain federal funding under Title IV Programs, impact our operations, and have other adverse consequences for us, as can changes in federal and state legislation or regulations of other federal, state and other regulatory bodies overseeing our education programs. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools, including ED, periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. In 2009 and 2010, ED convened negotiated rulemaking teams addressing topics such as lender and general loan issues, accreditation, discretionary grants, general and non-loan programmatic issues, and program integrity in the Title IV programs through the rulemaking process under HEA. The program integrity rulemaking conducted in November 2009 through January 2010 addressed a number of topics including (but not limited to): • standards regarding the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student enrollment, certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities including elimination of current safe harbors; • establishing a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the foundational requirement for Title IV student financial aid that a program of study prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation; • linking the definition of “gainful employment” with a required student loan debt to income ratio; • defining a credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility for Title IV student financial aid. The negotiated rulemaking process has concluded, and ED will publish recommended regulatory proposal changes in a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking available for public comment sometime in mid calendar year 2010. After a public comment period, the ED must publish final regulations in the Federal Register on or before November 1, 2010 for the regulations to be effective for the next award year, beginning July 1, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking process at this time, or predict with certainty the impacts on our operations. These rules could affect the manner in which we conduct our business by, for example, requiring us to change the manner in which we compensate our admissions representatives; reduce the amount of Title IV funds available to our students; reduce the amount of debt students can obtain to finance their education, potentially impacting the “90-10” calculation or resulting in decreased enrollment; or otherwise require changes 29 Table of Contents in our business model. Compliance with these rules, which if adopted could be effective as early as July 1, 2011, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Nor can we predict the effect of other legislative or regulatory changes by federal, state or other agencies regulating our education programs or other aspects of our operations, how any resulting regulations will be interpreted or whether we and our schools will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. Any such actions by other bodies that affect our programs and operations could have a material adverse effect on our student population, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Government agencies, regulatory agencies, and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, be sanctioned or limited in our operations, and expend significant resources to defend against those claims. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may bring actions against us based on alleged violations of the extensive regulatory requirements applicable to us, alleged misrepresentations and other claims. While our compliance programs are extensive and emphasize individual and organizational responsibility for compliance, as well as employing technological compliance controls, it is possible for a single employee to engage in non-compliant behaviors or make statements that violate some aspect of the extensive regulations governing our schools and business. Any alleged or other purported misrepresentations or actual infractions could result in (a) imposition of monetary fines or penalties, (b) repayment of funds received under Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (c) restrictions on or termination of our U.S. schools’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or state financial aid programs, (d) limitations on or termination of our U.S. schools’ operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, (e) restriction or revocation of our U.S. schools’ accreditations, (f) limit our ability to open new schools or offer new programs, (g) involve us in costly adversarial proceedings, or (h) subject us or our U.S. schools to civil or criminal penalties. Any one of these could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Any failure to comply with state authorization and regulatory requirements, or new state legislative or regulatory initiatives affecting our schools, could have an adverse effect on our student population, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our schools are subject to extensive state-level regulation and oversight by state licensing agencies, whose approval is necessary to allow an institution to operate and grant degrees or diplomas. We and our schools also are subject to and have pending audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, investigations, claims of non-compliance, and lawsuits by the ED and federal and state regulatory agencies, accrediting agencies, present and former students and employees, and others that may allege violations of statutes, regulations, accreditation standards, or other regulatory requirements applicable to us or our schools. The HEA also requires that an institution’s administration of Title IV Program funds be audited annually by an independent accounting firm and that the resulting audit report be submitted to the ED for review. State laws vary from state to state, but generally establish standards for faculty qualifications, location and nature of facilities, financial policies, new programs and student instruction, administrative staff, marketing and recruitment, and other operational and administrative procedures. Loss of state authorization for a school results in a school being ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs. Any failure of one of our U.S. schools to maintain state authorization would result in that school being unable to offer educational programs and students attending the campus being ineligible for Title IV Programs. If the results of any such audits, reviews, investigations, claims, or actions are unfavorable to us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or be subject to fines, operational limitations, loss of federal funding, injunctions, additional oversight and reporting, or other civil or criminal penalties. In addition, if the ED or 30 Table of Contents another regulatory agency determined that one of our schools improperly disbursed Title IV Program funds or violated a provision of the HEA or the ED’s regulations, that school could be required to repay such funds, and could be assessed an administrative fine. We have several such matters pending against us or one or more of our schools. See Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies – Accrediting Body and Federal Regulatory Matters” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of certain of these matters. Even if we maintain compliance with applicable governmental and accrediting body regulations, increased regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity arising from allegations of non-compliance may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our financial results, growth rates, and prospects. State legislatures often consider legislation affecting regulation of postsecondary educational institutions; enactment of this legislation and ensuing regulations impose substantial costs on our schools to modify their operations in order to comply with the changing regulatory environment. Several states have attempted to assert jurisdiction over schools that hire faculty or staff who live in the state, that advertise and recruit students in the state, or that have no physical location in the state but offer online programs to students who reside in the state. In the future, states may enact legislation or issue regulations that specifically address online educational programs such as those offered by AIU, CTU, IADT and LCB or otherwise affect our schools’ operations. If we fail to comply with current state licensing or authorization requirements, or determine that we are unable to cost-effectively comply with new state licensing or authorization requirements, we could lose enrollments and revenues in any affected states, which could materially affect our revenues and our growth opportunities. If AIU fails to maintain its institutional accreditation status, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, common stock price and growth prospects could be adversely affected. AIU’s accrediting agency, the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, or HLC, commissioned an advisory team to visit AIU in January 2010. The advisory visit was focused on AIU’s educational and business practices. The advisory team has concluded its visit and advised AIU that within the next several weeks it will provide a report to HLC containing the advisory team’s findings and recommendations, if any, concerning its review. In addition and as previously disclosed, in connection with HLC’s initial accreditation of AIU in May 2009, AIU must submit a progress report to HLC relating to curricula design and AIU’s graduate programs’ student learning outcomes and have HLC conduct a focused visit to AIU to assess the issue of credit equivalence. HLC has not yet notified AIU of the timing of the focused visit. As previously disclosed, the Department of Education conducted a program review of AIU in November 2009. AIU is currently awaiting the issuance of the program review report. If AIU fails to satisfactorily address the matters subject to these reviews, or otherwise fails to receive timely approval from HLC to begin offering new degree or certificate programs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any adverse future accreditation or regulatory action, or resulting adverse publicity related to any of these matters, may harm our business and reputation and impair our ability to attract and retain students at our AIU schools. We may also be subject to other claims and liabilities associated with any such future action, any one of which may have a material adverse affect on our business. We cannot predict the outcome of these reviews. Any future adverse accreditation or regulatory action, or resulting adverse publicity or legal proceedings related to any of these ongoing reviews, may harm our business and reputation and impair our ability to attract and retain students at our AIU schools. An extended delay in AIU’s ability to begin offering new programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. Moreover, the loss of accreditation by AIU for any reason would, among other things, render its schools and programs ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. If AIU became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, it could not conduct its business as it is currently conducted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents If one or more of our schools fails to maintain institutional accreditation or if one or more of our accrediting agencies loses recognition by ED, our schools could lose ability to participate in Title IV programs, and our growth prospects, reputation and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In the U.S., accrediting agencies periodically review the academic quality of an institution’s instructional programs and its administrative and financial operations to ensure that the institution has the resources to perform its educational mission. ED relies on accrediting agencies to assess whether an institution’s education programs qualify the school to participate in Title IV Programs. Furthermore, many states require professional programs to be accredited, and require individuals who must pass professional license exams to have graduated from accredited programs. While programmatic accreditation is not a sufficient basis to qualify for institutional Title IV Program certification, programmatic certification assists program graduates to practice as professionals or otherwise seek employment in their chosen field. If one of our schools or programs were to be placed on probationary accreditation status or failed to qualify for or maintain accreditation, we would likely experience adverse publicity, impaired ability to attract and retain students at substantial expense to obtain unqualified accreditation status. Any loss of institutional accreditation would result in a loss of Title IV Program funds for the affected school and its students. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our participation in Title IV programs is dependent on the ED continuing to recognize the regional accrediting agencies that accredit our colleges and universities. The standards and practices of these agencies have recently become a focus of attention by the ED. For example, in December 2009, the ED’s Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) recommended that the ED review HLC’s compliance with ED accrediting body standards and regulations following the OIG’s review of HLC’s initial accreditation of AIU. We cannot predict the outcome of the ED’s review of HLC’s accreditation standards and practices. If the ED ceased to recognize HLC for any reason, our schools that are accredited by HLC would not be eligible to participate in Title IV programs beginning 18 months after the date such recognition ceased unless HLC was again recognized or our schools that are accredited by HLC were accredited by another accrediting body recognized by the ED. If our schools that are accredited by HLC became ineligible to participate in Title IV programs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, the recent focus by the OIG and the ED on regional accrediting bodies, may make the accreditation review process more challenging for all of our schools when they undergo their normal accreditation review processes in the future. If this occurred, our schools may have to incur additional costs and/or curtail or modify certain program offerings in order to maintain their accreditation, which could increase their operational costs, reduce their enrollments and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased scrutiny by Congress and various governmental agencies regarding student loan activities have produced uncertainty concerning restrictions applicable to administration of Title IV Programs, the funding for those programs, and student lending activities. If these uncertainties are not satisfactorily or timely resolved, we may face increased regulatory burdens and costs or experience adverse impacts on our student enrollment. Investigations, claims, and actions against us and other postsecondary education providers could adversely affect our reputation, revenues, financial results and stock price. We and other postsecondary education providers have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation in recent years. State attorneys general, the ED, the U.S. Congress and other parties have increasingly focused on student loan programs, including Title IV Programs, investigating allegations of conflicts of interest between some institutions and lenders that provide Title IV loans, lenders providing questionable incentives to schools or school employees, claims of deceptive marketing practices for student loans, and schools steering students to specific lenders. Several institutions and lenders have been cited for these problems and have made monetary payments to settle those claims. In response to allegations on student loan programs, Congress has passed new laws, the ED has enacted stricter regulations, and several states have adopted codes of conduct or enacted state laws that further regulate 32 Table of Contents the conduct of lenders, schools, and school personnel. These new laws and regulations, among other things, limit schools’ relationships with lenders, restrict the types of services that schools may receive from lenders, prohibit lenders from providing other types of loans to students in exchange for Title IV loan volume from schools, require schools to provide additional information to students concerning institutionally preferred lenders, and significantly reduce the amount of federal payments to lenders who participate in the Title IV loan programs. A number of schools, including our schools, have entered into codes of conduct regarding student referrals to lenders in various states. In the second quarter 2009, the Federal Reserve Board approved final amendments to Regulation Z (Truth in Lending), that became effective February 14, 2010 and that revise and expand disclosure requirements for certain private education loans, including the extended payment plan program that we have implemented. Criticisms of the overall student lending and postsecondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of educational institutions, including us, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding us directly could damage our reputation. The environment surrounding access to and cost of student loans remains in a state of flux, with additional legislation and regulatory changes being actively considered at the federal and state levels. The uncertainty surrounding these issues, and any resolution of these issues that increases loan costs or reduces students’ access to Title IV loans or to extended payment plan programs such as ours, could reduce student demand for our programs, adversely impact our revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. Risks Related to Our Business We, and our business model, are subject to risks relating to enrollment of students. If we are not able to continue to successfully recruit and retain our students, our financial results could be adversely materially affected. Our business model depends on student recruitment and retention by our admissions counselors. Our admissions representatives are responsible for identifying individuals interested in enrolling in our campuses. Admissions representatives serve as prospective students’ primary contacts, providing information to help them make informed enrollment decisions and assisting students with completing the enrollment process. The ED’s negotiated rulemaking process is addressing payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student enrollment, including elimination of safe harbors allowing payment of certain compensation to our admissions advisors, financial aid advisors and certain third parties. If we are required by ED to change the pay practices for these employees, we may face retention issues, increased operating costs, or the need to change our business model, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, revenue and financial results. Tightened credit markets in the U.S. economy in 2008 and 2009 caused some lenders, including some lenders that previously provided Title IV loans to our students, to cease providing Title IV loans to students. Other lenders have reduced the benefits and increased the fees associated with the Title IV loans they do provide. In addition, the new proposed regulations under HEOA and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) requirements may result in higher administrative costs for schools, including us, related to student loan and new extended payment plan programs. If the costs of Title IV loans increase, if availability of loans and payment plans decrease, or student debt repayments are tied to “gainful employment” and wage levels, students may decide not to enroll in a postsecondary institution, which could have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues and results of operations. We are working internally to implement funding programs that will assist our students in continuing their program of study. We have provided payment plans directly to certain students to ensure that they can finish their 33 Table of Contents existing educational programs with us and to allow new students to attend our schools. As of December 31, 2009, we have committed to approximately $68.5 million of funding through extended payment plans. Any further actions by the U.S. Congress, ED or other regulatory bodies that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in these Programs, or restrict our ability to offer extended payment plans or establish different or more stringent requirements for our U.S. schools to participate in Title IV Programs or to offer such extended payment plans, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce available financial aid, which could adversely affect our student population. Alternatively, improved state financing may result in increased support for lower-priced public institutions, which may increase competition for students. A significant number of states in which our schools operate face budget constraints that may reduce state appropriations in a number of areas including state student financial aid, but we cannot predict the amount or timing of any such reductions. If state funding for our students decreases and our students are unable to secure alternative sources of funding for their education, our student population could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. Increased state support for public institutions and community colleges, resulting in increased competition for students, also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to successfully resolve pending or future litigation and regulatory and governmental inquiries involving us, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims covering a range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving students and employees including, from time to time, qui tam actions filed in federal court by individual plaintiffs on behalf of themselves and the federal government alleging that we submitted false claims or statements to the ED in violation of the False Claims Act. Qui tam actions are filed under seal, and remain under seal until the government decides whether it will intervene in the case. If the government elects to intervene in an action, it assumes primary control of that matter; if the government elects not to intervene; individual plaintiffs may continue the litigation at their own expense on behalf of the government. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters and expect to continue to incur significant defense costs and other expenses in connection with them. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters. Government investigations and any related legal and administrative proceedings may result in the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings against us and/or our current or former directors, officers or employees; or the imposition of significant fines, penalties or suspensions, or other remedies and sanctions. Any such costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If we fail to effectively identify, pursue and integrate acquired schools, both in the U.S. and outside of the U.S., our growth could be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. Acquisitions are one component of our overall long-term growth. From time to time, we engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible domestic and international acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, acquire institutions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate or profitably operate acquired institutions. If we use debt to finance future acquisitions or issue securities in connection with future acquisitions, such actions could dilute the holdings of our stockholders. Because an acquisition is considered a change in ownership and control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards, we must obtain approval from the ED, most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies and possibly other regulatory bodies when we acquire an institution. 34 Table of Contents We have in the past, and may in the future, acquire schools in international markets. There may be difficulties and complexities associated with our expansion into international markets, and our strategies may not succeed beyond our current markets. If we do not effectively address these risks, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired. We are subject to the risks inherent in operating in foreign countries. We operate schools outside of the U.S. and are subject to risks inherent in having non-domestic operations, including unfamiliar statutes and regulations for employees and postsecondary institutions, currency exchange rate fluctuations, limits on repatriation of profits, U.S.-foreign tax treaties and taxing authority, and possible economic or political instability in those countries. If we fail to effectively identify, establish, and operate new schools and new branch campuses of our existing schools, or to offer new educational programs, our growth may be slowed and our profitability may be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we currently anticipate opening new schools, new branch campuses of our existing schools throughout the U.S, and offering new educational programs. These activities require us to invest in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing and advertising expenses, and devote resources that are different from those required to operate our existing schools. We may be unable to identify or acquire suitable expansion opportunities to help maintain or accelerate our current growth rate, or to successfully integrate a new school or branch campus. Any failure by us to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of a new school or branch campus could slow our growth and make any newly-established school or branch campus more costly to operate than we had planned, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We need timely approval by applicable regulatory agencies to offer new programs, expand our operations into certain states, or acquire additional schools. If those approvals are not timely, we may incur operating expenses (such as lease obligations) for significant time periods before we can enroll students. To open a new school or branch campus, or to establish a new educational program, we are required to obtain the appropriate approvals from applicable state and accrediting regulatory agencies, which may be conditioned, delayed or denied in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. Approval by these regulatory agencies may be negatively impacted due to regulatory inquiries or reviews and any adverse publicity relating to such matters. Also, any adverse action taken by the ED regarding its recognition of any accrediting agency that accredits our schools or programs could adversely impact our ability to open a new school or branch campus or establish new educational programs. In addition, to be eligible to participate in Title IV Programs, the ED and applicable state and accrediting bodies must certify a new school or branch campus. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs and technology. Increasingly, prospective employers of students who graduate from our schools demand that their new employees possess appropriate technological skills and also appropriate “soft” skills, such as communication, critical thinking and teamwork skills. These skills can evolve rapidly in a changing economic and technological environment, so it is important for our schools’ educational programs to evolve in response to those economic and technological changes. Current or prospective students or the employers of our graduates may not accept expansion of our existing programs, improved program content and the development of new programs. Even if our schools are able to develop acceptable new and improved programs in a cost-effective manner, our schools may not be able to begin offering them as quickly as prospective employers would like or as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to regulatory or financial constraints, unusually rapid technological changes, or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs involving their fields of study could suffer, and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents The loss of our key personnel could harm us. Our future success depends largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified corporate managers and our schools’ ability to attract and retain qualified faculty members and administrators. We face competition in hiring personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, to support our growth, we must hire, retain, develop and train qualified admissions representatives who are dedicated to student recruitment. If we are unable to hire, develop, and train qualified admissions representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts could be adversely affected. If our graduates are unable to obtain professional licenses or certification in their chosen field of study, we may face declining enrollments and revenues or student claims against us. Many of our students, particularly in the healthcare programs, require or desire professional licenses and certifications in order to obtain employment in their chosen fields. Many factors affect a student’s ability to become licensed, including whether the student’s program and institution are accredited by a particular accrediting commission or approved by a professional association or by the state in which the student seeks employment, and the student’s own qualifications and attainment. If one or more states deny licenses to a significant number of our students due to factors relating to our institutions or programs, we could suffer reputational harm and declining enrollments in those institutions or programs, or face student claims or litigation that could affect our revenues and results of operations. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, including long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets, such as our trademarks. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we review our nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, including long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets, such as our trademarks, for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of fair-value-based measurements. Our estimates of fair value for these are based primarily on projected future results and expected cash flows and other assumptions. In the future, if we are required to significantly write down the value of our nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, including long-lived assets, goodwill and trademarks, our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. We could experience decreasing enrollments or decreasing growth in our enrollments in our schools due to changing demographic trends in family size, overall declines in enrollment in postsecondary schools, job growth in fields unrelated to our core disciplines, immigration and visa laws, or other societal factors. A September 2009 NCES report projects that between 2007 and 2018 enrollments in degree-granting postsecondary institutions increasing in a range from a low alternative projection of 9%, or 19.9 million students, to a high alternative projection of 17%, or 21.3 million students. These projected 11-year growth rates are lower than the 27% increase NCES reported for the 11-year period 1996-2007 of 14.4 million in 1996 to 18.2 million in 2007. Such a decline in the overall growth rate in the postsecondary education sector would result in increased competition for students for our programs and could impact our ability to attract and retain students and affect our growth rate in enrollments. The ability of our foreign students to obtain visas for our U.S. and our European schools is important to student recruitment. For example, as a result of changes in United Kingdom immigration legislation, Istituto Marangoni-London will not, as had been the case in the past, be able to sponsor students from outside of the European Economic Area (which comprises all of the European Union countries plus Iceland, 36 Table of Contents Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland). Istituto Marangoni-London is currently working towards meeting the requirements of the UK immigration legislation as it applies to education institutions and courses of study in the United Kingdom. If we cannot attract new students, or develop new curricula to attract prospective students who seek degrees in fields other than our core disciplines, or accommodate changed immigration or visa rules, we may be unable to maintain and increase our student population or achieve our growth strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, financial condition and market price of our common stock. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to our online computer networks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students. Our schools’ online campuses intend to increase student population. To support this growth, we will require more resources, including additional faculty, admissions, academic and financial aid personnel. This growth may place a significant strain on the operational resources of our schools’ online campuses. Our schools’ online campuses’ success depends, in part, on their ability to expand the content of their programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner, maintain good standing with regulators and accreditors, and meet students’ needs in a timely manner. New programs can be delayed due to current and future unforeseen regulatory restrictions. Any general decline in internet use for any reason, including security or privacy concerns, cost of internet service or changes in government regulation, could result in less demand for online educational services and inhibit our planned growth in our online programs. For our online and on-ground campuses, the performance and reliability of program infrastructure is critical to their reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Our delivery of these programs could be hindered by computer system error or failure, significant increase in traffic on our computer networks, or any significant failure or unavailability of our computer networks due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to our schools’ computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our schools’ to attract and retain students. Our computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Due to the sensitive nature of the information contained on our networks, such as students’ grades, hackers may target our networks. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Although we continually monitor the security of our technology infrastructure, we cannot assure that these efforts will protect our computer networks against security breaches. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our schools and programs among high school graduates and working adults. If our schools are unable to successfully market and advertise their educational programs, our schools’ ability to attract and enroll prospective students in such programs could be adversely affected, and, consequently, our ability to increase revenue or maintain profitability could be impaired. Some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and the programs that they offer include, but are not limited to, student or employer dissatisfaction with educational programs and services, diminished access to high school students, our failure to maintain or expand our brand names or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices, costs and effectiveness of internet and other advertising programs, and changing media preferences of our target audiences. 37 Table of Contents We compete with a variety of educational institutions, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our student population and revenue could be adversely impacted. Postsecondary education is a highly fragmented and competitive field. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities, other proprietary schools, other online education providers, and alternatives to higher education, such as immediate employment and military service. Some public and private institutions charge lower tuition for courses of study similar to those offered by our schools due, in part, to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources not available to proprietary institutions. Our competitors may have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect to experience more competition as more colleges, universities, and other postsecondary education providers increase their online program offerings. An increase in competition could affect the success of our marketing efforts and enable our competitors to recruit prospective students more effectively, or reduce our tuition charges and increase spending for marketing efforts, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions. Our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends and disposing of assets, and may restrict us from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any of those covenants could result in an event of default under the agreement and allow the lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We are subject to privacy laws and regulations both domestically and in the countries in which our foreign schools operate, due to our collection and use of personal information. Any violations of those laws, or any breach, theft or loss of that information, could adversely affect our reputation and operations. Our efforts to attract and enroll students result in us collecting, using and keeping substantial amounts of personal information regarding applicants, our students, faculty, their families and alumni, including social security numbers, financial data, or health data. We also maintain personal information about our employees in the ordinary course of our activities. Our services, the services of many of our health plan and benefit plan vendors, and other information can be accessed globally through the internet. Our computer networks and those of our vendors that manage confidential information for us may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, theft or misuse, hackers, computer viruses, or third parties in connection with hardware and software upgrades and changes. Our services can be accessed globally via the Internet, so we may be subject to privacy laws in countries outside the U.S. from which students access our services, which laws may constrain the way we market and provide our services. While we utilize security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, any breach of student or employee privacy or errors in storing, using or transmitting personal information could violate privacy laws and regulations resulting in fines or other penalties. A breach, theft or loss of personal information held by us or our vendors, or a violation of the laws and regulations governing privacy could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or result in additional regulation, compliance costs or investments in additional security systems to protect our computer networks. We rely on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property that may not be adequately protected under current laws, and we may encounter disputes from time to time relating to our use of intellectual property of third parties. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, domain names and agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We rely on service mark and trademark protection in the United States and select foreign jurisdictions to protect our rights to our marks as well as distinctive logos and other marks associated with our services. We cannot assure you that these measures will be adequate, that we have secured, or will be able to secure, 38 Table of Contents appropriate protections for all of our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect these rights, unauthorized third parties may attempt to duplicate the proprietary aspects of our curricula, online resource material and other content. Our management’s attention may be diverted by these attempts, and we may need to use funds in litigation to protect our proprietary rights against any infringement or violation. We may encounter disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise a claim against us alleging an infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. We may incur liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of class materials posted online for class discussions. In some instances our faculty members or our students may post various articles or other third-party content on class discussion boards or download third-party content to personal computers. We may incur claims or liability for the unauthorized duplication or distribution of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and could impose a strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. A protracted economic slowdown and rising unemployment could harm our business. We believe that many students pursue postsecondary education to be more competitive in the job market. However, a protracted economic slowdown could increase unemployment and diminish job prospects generally. Diminished job prospects and heightened financial worries could affect the willingness of students to incur loans to pay for postsecondary education and to pursue postsecondary education in general. As a result, our enrollments could suffer. We may incur costs in complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with similar laws. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, requires all public accommodations to meet federal requirements for access and use by disabled individuals. Other federal, state, and local laws and regulations also may impose similar or additional accessibility requirements. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1991, to be accessible to handicapped persons. Typically, our real estate leases require us to pay any costs necessary to comply with all laws, including these accessibility laws, for our premises, which may include parking areas, restaurants at our culinary schools, dormitory facilities and similar facilities in addition to classroom and office space. In opening new schools or locations and acquiring existing schools, we often must build out the premises to satisfy our classroom needs and must incur the costs associated with accessibility compliance in those construction activities. If any of our premises are not compliant with the ADA or FHAA, we could face fines, litigation by private litigants, and orders to correct any non-complying features. Risk Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of a number of factors, some of which are not in our control. These factors include: • accreditation reviews or questions and any related adverse publicity; • the outcome of ED’s current negotiated rulemaking process, and other changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; 39 Table of Contents • the initiation, pendency or outcome of litigation, regulatory reviews and investigations, and any related adverse publicity; • changes in the student lending and credit markets; • our ability to meet or exceed expectations of analysts or investors; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • general conditions in the postsecondary education field, including changes in the ED, state laws and regulations and accreditation standards, or availability of student financing; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; • future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, which have particularly affected the market prices of many companies that provide postsecondary education in recent periods; • the loss of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent an investor from selling shares of our common stock at or above the price at which the investor acquired the shares. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 