ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the SEC before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We have a history of losses since our inception and may incur losses for the foreseeable future. Accumulated losses excluding non-cash transactions as of December 31, 2005, were $64 million and acquisition related non-cash transactions were $102 million, which resulted in an accumulated net loss of $166 million. We have not yet achieved profitability and we can give no assurances that we will achieve profitability within the foreseeable future as we fund operating and capital expenditures in areas such as establishment and expansion of markets, sales and marketing, operating equipment and research and development. We cannot assure investors that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. We may not be able to execute our business plan and may not generate cash from operations. In the event that cash flow from operations is less than anticipated and we are unable to secure additional funding to cover our expenses, in order to preserve cash, we would be required to reduce expenditures and effect reductions in our corporate infrastructure, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current level of operations. To the extent that operating expenses increase or we need additional funds to make acquisitions, develop new technologies or acquire strategic assets, the need for additional funding may be accelerated and there can be no assurances that any such additional funding can be obtained on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we were not able to generate sufficient capital, either from operations or through additional debt or equity financing, to fund our current operations, we would be forced to significantly reduce or delay our plans for continued research and development and expansion. This could significantly reduce the value of our securities. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2005 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern for the year ending December 31, 2006. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report dated March 15, 2006 that included an explanatory paragraph expressing substancial doubt in our ability to continue as a going concern without additional capital becoming available. Our ability to continue as a going concern ultimately is dependent on our ability to generate a profit which is likely dependant upon our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies and, ultimately, to achieve profitable operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. RISKS RELATED TO MANUFACTURING The manufacture of OLED-on-silicon is new and OLED microdisplays have not been produced in significant quantities. If we are unable to produce our products in sufficient quantity, we will be unable to maintain and attract new customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that once we commence volume production we will attain yields at high throughput that will result in profitable gross margins or that we will not experience manufacturing problems which could result in delays in delivery of orders or product introductions. We are dependent on a single manufacturing line. We currently manufacture our products on a single manufacturing line. If we experience any significant disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facility or a serious failure of a critical piece of equipment, we may be unable to supply microdisplays to our customers. For this reason, some OEMs may also be reluctant to commit a broad line of products to our microdisplays without a second production facility in place. However, we try to maintain product inventory to fill the requirements under such circumstances. Interruptions in our manufacturing could be caused by manufacturing equipment problems, the introduction of new equipment into the manufacturing process or delays in the delivery of new manufacturing equipment. Lead-time for delivery of manufacturing equipment can be extensive. No assurance can be given that we will not lose potential sales or be unable to meet production orders due to production interruptions in our manufacturing line. In order to meet the requirements of certain OEMs for multiple manufacturing sites, we will have to expend capital to secure additional sites and may not be able to manage multiple sites successfully. We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to timely and reliably procure components from single-sourced suppliers. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single-source material or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm operating results. 18 We expect to depend on semiconductor contract manufacturers to supply our silicon integrated circuits and other suppliers of key components, materials and services. We do not manufacture the silicon integrated circuits on which we incorporate our OLED technology. Instead, we expect to provide the design layouts to semiconductor contract manufacturers who will manufacture the integrated circuits on silicon wafers. We also expect to depend on suppliers of a variety of other components and services, including circuit boards, graphic integrated circuits, passive components, materials and chemicals, and equipment support. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality silicon integrated circuits or other necessary components, materials or services on a timely basis could result in manufacturing delays, increased costs and ultimately in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely on our license agreement with Eastman Kodak for the development of our products. We rely on our license agreement with Eastman Kodak for the development of our products, and the termination of this license, Eastman Kodak's licensing of its OLED technology to others for microdisplay applications, or the sublicensing by Eastman Kodak of our OLED technology to third parties, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our principal products under development utilize OLED technology that we license from Eastman Kodak. We rely upon Eastman Kodak to protect and enforce key patents held by Eastman Kodak, relating to OLED display technology. Eastman Kodak's patents expire at various times in the future. Our license with Eastman Kodak could terminate if we fail to perform any material term or covenant under the license agreement. Since our license from Eastman Kodak is non-exclusive, Eastman Kodak could also elect to become a competitor itself or to license OLED technology for microdisplay applications to others who have the potential to compete with us. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret protection, licensing agreements and other arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Patents may not be issued for our current patent applications, third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent any patent issued to us, unauthorized parties could obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, rights granted under patents issued to us may not afford us any competitive advantage, others may independently develop similar technology or design around our patents, our technology may be available to licensees of Eastman Kodak, and protection of our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain foreign countries. We may be required to expend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Any future infringement or other claims or prosecutions related to our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Protection of intellectual property has historically been a large yearly expense for eMagin. We have not been in a financial position to properly protect all of our intellectual property, and may not be in a position to properly protect our position or stay ahead of competition in new research and the protecting of the resulting intellectual property. RISKS RELATED TO THE MICRODISPLAY INDUSTRY The commercial success of the microdisplay industry depends on the widespread market acceptance of microdisplay systems products. The market for microdisplays is emerging. Our success will depend on consumer acceptance of microdisplays as well as the success of the commercialization of the microdisplay market. As an OEM supplier, our customer's products must also be well accepted. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our technology in this market. The viewfinder microdisplay market sector is well established with entrenched competitors with whom we must compete. The microdisplay systems business is intensely competitive. We do business in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in market requirements and competition from both other suppliers and our potential OEM customers. Such markets are typically characterized by price erosion. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. We expect these factors to include the following: 19 · our success in designing, manufacturing and delivering expected new products, including those implementing new technologies on a timely basis; · our ability to address the needs of our customers and the quality of our customer services; · the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use and pricing of our products; · successful expansion of our manufacturing capabilities; · our efficiency of production, and ability to manufacture and ship products on time; · the rate at which original equipment manufacturing customers incorporate our product solutions into their own products; · the market acceptance of our customers' products; and · product or technology introductions by our competitors. Our competitive position could be damaged if one or more potential OEM customers decide to manufacture their own microdisplays, using OLED or alternate technologies. In addition, our customers may be reluctant to rely on a relatively small company such as eMagin for a critical component. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. The display industry is cyclical. The display industry is characterized by fabrication facilities that require large capital expenditures and long lead times for supplies and the subsequent processing time, leading to frequent mismatches between supply and demand. The OLED microdisplay sector may experience overcapacity if and when all of the facilities presently in the planning stage come on line leading to a difficult market in which to sell our products. Competing products may get to market sooner than ours. Our competitors are investing substantial resources in the development and manufacture of microdisplay systems using alternative technologies such as reflective liquid crystal displays (LCDs), LCD-on-Silicon ("LCOS") microdisplays, active matrix electroluminescence and scanning image systems, and transmissive active matrix LCDs. Our competitive position could be damaged if one or more of our competitors’ products get to the market sooner than our products. We cannot assure you that our product will get to market ahead of our competitors or that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition. The failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our competitors have many advantages over us. As the microdisplay market develops, we expect to experience intense competition from numerous domestic and foreign companies including well-established corporations possessing worldwide manufacturing and production facilities, greater name recognition, larger retail bases and significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us, as well as from emerging companies attempting to obtain a share of the various markets in which our microdisplay products have the potential to compete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are subject to lengthy OEM development periods. We plan to sell most of our microdisplays to OEMs who will incorporate them into products they sell. OEMs determine during their product development phase whether they will incorporate our products. The time elapsed between initial sampling of our products by OEMs, the custom design of our products to meet specific OEM product requirements, and the ultimate incorporation of our products into OEM consumer products is significant. If our products fail to meet our OEM customers' cost, performance or technical requirements or if unexpected technical challenges arise in the integration of our products into OEM consumer products, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected. Long delays in achieving customer qualification and incorporation of our products could adversely affect our business. 20 Our products will likely experience rapidly declining unit prices. In the markets in which we expect to compete, prices of established products tend to decline significantly over time. In order to maintain our profit margins over the long term, we believe that we will need to continuously develop product enhancements and new technologies that will either slow price declines of our products or reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. While we anticipate many opportunities to reduce production costs over time, there can be no assurance that these cost reduction plans will be successful nor is there any assurance that our costs can be reduced as quickly as any reduction in unit prices. We may also attempt to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling price by introducing new products, increasing our sales volumes or adjusting our product mix. If we fail to do so, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified technical and consulting personnel. We must hire highly skilled technical personnel as employees and as independent contractors in order to develop our products. The competition for skilled technical employees is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel. We must compete with companies that possess greater financial and other resources than we do, and that may be more attractive to potential employees and contractors. To be competitive, we may have to increase the compensation, bonuses, stock options and other fringe benefits offered to employees in order to attract and retain such personnel. The costs of retaining or attracting new personnel may have a materially adverse affect on our business and our operating results. In addition, difficulties in hiring and retaining technical personnel could delay the implementation of our business plan. Our success depends in a large part on the continuing service of key personnel. Changes in management could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the active participation of several key management personnel, including Gary W. Jones, our chief executive officer. We will also need to recruit additional management in order to expand according to our business plan. The failure to attract and retain additional management or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. Our business depends on new products and technologies. The market for our products is characterized by rapid changes in product, design and manufacturing process technologies. Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop and manufacture new products and technologies to match the varying requirements of different customers in order to establish a competitive position and become profitable. Furthermore, we must adopt our products and processes to technological changes and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our failure to accomplish any of the above could harm our business and operating results. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Our business has primarily operated on the basis of short-term purchase orders. We are now receiving longer term purchase agreements, such as those which comprise our $28 million backlog, and procurement contracts, but we cannot guarantee that we will continue to do so. Our current purchase agreements can be cancelled or revised without penalty, depending on the circumstances. We plan production on the basis of internally generated forecasts of demand, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast revenues. If we fail to accurately forecast operating results, our business may suffer and the value of your investment in the Company may decline. Our business strategy may fail if we cannot continue to form strategic relationships with companies that manufacture and use products that could incorporate our OLED-on-silicon technology. Our prospects will be significantly affected by our ability to develop strategic alliances with OEMs for incorporation of our OLED-on-silicon technology into their products. While we intend to continue to establish strategic relationships with manufacturers of electronic consumer products, personal computers, chipmakers, lens makers, equipment makers, material suppliers and/or systems assemblers, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships on commercially acceptable terms, or that the alliances we do enter in to will realize their objectives. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends to some extent on international transactions. We purchase needed materials from companies located abroad and may be adversely affected by political and currency risk, as well as the additional costs of doing business with a foreign entity. Some customers in other countries have longer receivable periods or warranty periods. In addition, many of the OEMs that are the most likely long-term purchasers of our microdisplays are located abroad exposing us to additional political and currency risk. We may find it necessary to locate manufacturing facilities abroad to be closer to our customers which could expose us to various risks, including management of a multi-national organization, the complexities of complying with foreign laws and customs, political instability and the complexities of taxation in multiple jurisdictions. Our business may expose us to product liability claims. Our business may expose us to potential product liability claims. Although no such claims have been brought against us to date, and to our knowledge no such claim is threatened or likely, we may face liability to product users for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of our products. While we plan to maintain product liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not exceed coverage limits, fall outside the scope of such coverage, or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. 21 Our business is subject to environmental regulations and possible liability arising from potential employee claims of exposure to harmful substances used in the development and manufacture of our products. We are subject to various governmental regulations related to toxic, volatile, experimental and other hazardous chemicals used in our design and manufacturing process. Our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines or in the suspension or cessation of our operations. Compliance with these regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. We develop, evaluate and utilize new chemical compounds in the manufacture of our products. While we attempt to ensure that our employees are protected from exposure to hazardous materials, we cannot assure you that potentially harmful exposure will not occur or that we will not be liable to employees as a result. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK The substantial number of shares that are or will be eligible for sale could cause our common stock price to decline even if the company is successful. Sales of significant amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could materially affect the market price of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 17, 2006, we have outstanding (i) options to purchase 18,052,636 shares and (ii) warrants to purchase 26,197,247 shares of common stock. We have a staggered board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions, which could inhibit potential investors or delay or prevent a change of control that may favor you. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes and our Board members are elected for terms that are staggered. This could discourage the efforts by others to obtain control of the company. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately, discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control. In particular, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock (less any outstanding shares of preferred stock) with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 