Item 1A. Risk Factors We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed to be immaterial by management, also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Company and the Bank are required to comply with the terms of separate memoranda of understanding issued by their respective regulators and lack of compliance could result in additional regulatory actions. In December 2009, the FDIC and the Division determined that the Bank required additional supervisory attention and on December 29, 2009 entered into the Bank MOU. Under the terms of the Bank MOU, the Bank, without the prior written approval, or nonobjection, of the FDIC and/or the DFI, was not allowed to: • appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers; • pay cash dividends to its holding company, Timberland Bancorp, Inc.; or • engage in any transactions that would materially change the balance sheet composition including growth in total assets of five percent or more or significant changes in funding sources, such as by increasing brokered deposits. Other material provisions of the Bank MOU required the Bank to: • maintain Tier 1 Capital of not less than 10.0% of the Bank’s adjusted total assets pursuant to Part 325 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations, and maintain capital ratios above “well capitalized” thresholds as defined under Section 325.103 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations; • maintain a fully funded allowance for loan and lease losses, the adequacy of which shall be deemed to be satisfactory to the FDIC and the DFI; • formulate and implement a written profit plan acceptable to the FDIC and the DFI; • eliminate from its books all assets classified “Loss” that have not been previously collected or charged-off; • reduce the dollar volume by 50% of the assets classified “Substandard” and “Doubtful” at April 30, 2009; • develop a written plan for reducing the aggregate amount of its acquisition, development and construction loans; and • revise, adopt and fully implement a written liquidity and funds management policy. On December 12, 2012, the FDIC and the Division notified the Bank that the Bank MOU had been rescinded. In addition on February 1, 2010, the FRB determined that the Company required additional supervisory attention and entered into the Company MOU. Under the terms of the Company MOU, the Company, without prior written approval, or non-objection, of the FRB, may not: • appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers; • receive dividends or any other form of payment or distribution representing a reduction in capital from the Bank; • declare or pay any dividends, or make any other capital distributions; • incur, renew, increase, or guarantee any debt; • issue any trust preferred securities; or • purchase or redeem any of its stock. 41 The Company MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the FRB. If the Company is found not in compliance with the MOU, it could be subject to various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict growth, to remove officers and/or directors, and to assess civil monetary penalties. Management of the Company and the Bank have been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Company MOU. Compliance will be determined by the FRB. The FRB may determine in its sole discretion that the issues raised by the Company MOU have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or further limitations on the Company’s business and negatively affect its ability to implement its business plan, pay dividends on its common stock or the value of its common stock, as well as its financial condition and result of operations. The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of our local market areas of Grays Harbor, Pierce, Thurston, King, Kitsap and Lewis counties in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates. Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and • the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected. Our real estate construction and land development loans expose us to significant risks. We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At September 30, 2012, construction and land development loans totaled $56.4 million, or 9.9% of our total loan portfolio, of which $35.6 million were for residential real estate projects. Approximately $33.3 million of our residential construction loans were made to finance the construction of owner-occupied homes and are structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. Land development loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $589,000, or 0.1% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2012. In general, construction and land development lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property's value both before and at completion of the project as well as the estimated cost of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine. Construction loans and land development loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to builders are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At September 30, 2012, $1.9 million of our construction portfolio was comprised of speculative one- to four-family construction loans. 42 Approximately $2.3 million, or 4.0%, of our total real estate construction and land development loans were non-performing at September 30, 2012. A material increase in our non-performing construction and loan development loans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy includes the expansion of commercial real estate lending. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market of southwest Washington, a further downturn in the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. At September 30, 2012, we had $256.3 million of commercial real estate mortgage loans, representing 45.1% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger as a percentage of the total principal outstanding than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because 43 our balance in commercial real estate loans at September 30, 2012 represents more than 300% of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At September 30, 2012, we had $22.6 million or 4.0% of total loans in commercial business loans. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At September 30, 2012, $139.8 million, or 24.6% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans. Our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs have increased during recent years compared to historical averages and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $3.5 million, $6.8 million and $10.6 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $3.6 million, $6.1 million and $13.5 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During these last three fiscal years, we experienced higher loan delinquencies and credit losses than our historical averages. Our non-performing loans and assets have historically reflected unique operating difficulties for individual borrowers rather than weakness in the overall economy of the Pacific Northwest; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and non-performing loans. Slower sales 44 and excess inventory in the housing market have been the primary causes of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for construction and land development loans and land loans, which represent 48.3% of our non-performing loans at September 30, 2012. Further, our portfolio is concentrated in construction and land development loans, land loans and commercial and commercial real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses to increase our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.15% of total loans held for investment and 52.48% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2012. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the duration of the loan; • the credit history of a particular borrower; and • changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic comprehensive reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio; • evaluation of non-performing loans; • historical default and loss experience; • existing economic conditions; • risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and • the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees; securing the loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected. At September 30, 2012 our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days or more past due, non-accrual investment securities, and other real estate owned and other repossessed assets) were $38.3 million, or 5.19% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways: 45 • We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or non-performing investment securities, except on a cash basis when the collectibility of the principal is not in doubt. • We must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses. • Non-interest expense increases when we must write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. • Non-interest income decreases when we must recognize other-than-temporary impairment on non-performing investment securities. • There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs related to our OREO. • The resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have classified an additional $13.4 million in loans as performing troubled debt restructurings at September 30, 2012. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation allowances, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated estimated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect or if the property declines in value after foreclosure, the fair value of our OREO may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for a valuation allowance. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further valuation allowances. Significant charge-offs to our OREO, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in additional losses. During the year ended September 30, 2012, we recognized a $214,000 other than temporary impairment ("OTTI") charge on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment. Management concluded that the decline of the estimated fair value below the cost of these securities was other than temporary and recorded a credit loss through non-interest income. At September 30, 2012 our remaining private label mortgage backed securities portfolio totaled $2.8 million. We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, default rates on residential mortgage securities, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our investment securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of private label mortgage backed securities or other investment securities are other than temporarily impaired, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 46 An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by Freddie Mac or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. The sale of residential mortgage loans to Freddie Mac provides a significant portion of our non-interest income. Any future changes in their program, our eligibility to participate in such program, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of Freddie Mac could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations if we could not find other purchasers. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with our loan sale activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. In addition, a substantial majority of our real estate secured loans held are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of defaults that may adversely affect our profitability. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments can adversely affect our earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum reserve ratio. The FDIC has adopted a plan under which it will meet this ratio by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the minimum reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. In addition to the 47 statutory minimum ratio, the FDIC must set a designated reserve ratio, or DRR, which may exceed the statutory minimum. The FDIC has set 2.0% as the DRR. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted final regulations under which insurance premiums are based on an institution's average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity capital instead of its deposits. While our FDIC insurance premiums initially will be reduced by these regulations, it is possible that our future insurance premiums will increase under the final regulations. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and other borrowings to fund our operations. At September 30, 2012, we had $45.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding with an additional $214.8 million of available borrowing capacity through the FHLB and the FRB. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets where our deposits are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our income may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Bank is subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the DFI, and the Company is subject to examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The FDIC, DFI and the Federal Reserve govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on an institution's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. 48 Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on the Bank. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called "golden parachute" payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company's proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit "unfair, deceptive or abusive" acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as the Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The proposed rules implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations. 49 The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, we may have to raise additional capital on terms that may be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the FDIC, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action. See “– The Company and the Bank are required to comply with the terms of separate memoranda of understanding issued by their respective regulators and lack of compliance could result in additional regulatory actions.” We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings. We performed our test for goodwill impairment for fiscal year 2012, but no impairment was identified. Our assessment of the fair value of goodwill is based on an evaluation of market capitalizations for similar financial institutions, discounted cash flows from forecasted earnings, our current market capitalization, and a valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment. If our judgment was incorrect, or if events or circumstances change, and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill resulting in a charge to earnings, which would adversely affect our results of operations, perhaps materially; however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stock may become impaired. At September 30, 2012, we owned $5.7 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per accounting guidance for the impairment of long lived assets. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB's private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB of Seattle received a Consent Order from the FHFA. The FHLB of Seattle reported, in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, that it continues to address the requirements of the Consent Agreement and that, as of September 30, 2012, it met all minimum financial metrics required under the Consent Agreement. Further, the FHLB of Seattle reported that in September, 2012 that the FHFA reclassified the FHLB of Seattle to be adequately capitalized. Any 50 dividends on, or repurchases of, the FHLB of Seattle stock continue to require consent of the FHFA. The FHFA recently approved the FHLB of Seattle to repurchase a portion of its stock and $50,000 of FHLB of Seattle stock was purchased from the Bank in September, 2012. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. We may experience further decreases in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could reduce our earnings. Mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) are capitalized at estimated fair value when acquired through the origination of loans that are subsequently sold with servicing rights retained. At September 30, 2012 our MSRs totaled $2.0 million. MSRs are amortized to servicing income on loans sold over the period of estimated net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSRs at the date of the sale of loans is determined based on the discounted present value of expected future cash flows using key assumptions for servicing income and costs and prepayment rates on the underlying loans. On a quarterly basis we evaluate the fair value of MSRs for impairment by comparing actual cash flows and estimated cash flows from the servicing assets to those estimated at the time servicing assets were originated. Our methodology for estimated the fair value of MSRs is highly sensitive to changes in assumptions, such as prepayment speeds. The effect of changes in market interest rates on estimated rates of loan prepayments represents the predominant risk characteristic underlying the MSRs portfolio. For example, a decrease in mortgage interest rates typically increases the prepayment speeds of MSRs and therefore decreases the fair value of the MSRs. We recorded a $10,000 valuation recovery to our MSRs during the year ended September 30, 2012, which increased our earnings. Future decreases in mortgage interest rates could decrease the fair value of our MSRs, which would decrease our earnings. Our assets as of September 30, 2012 include a deferred tax asset and we may not be able to realize the full amount of such asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement recorded amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At September 30, 2012, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $3.6 million. The net deferred tax asset results primarily from our provision for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which has been larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting purposes. We regularly review our net deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our expectations of future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences and record a valuation allowance if deemed necessary. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at September 30, 2012 is fully realizable; however, if we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust the net deferred tax asset, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company's stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. 51 The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income (loss) to our common shareholders and net income (loss) per common share and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. On November 13, 2012, our outstanding 16,641 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, ("Series A Preferred Stock") with a redemption value of $1,000 per share, originally issued to the U.S. Treasury Department ("Treasury") on December 23, 2008 as part of the CPP, was sold by the Treasury as part of its efforts to manage and recover its investments under the TARP. While the sale of these preferred shares to new owners did not result in any proceeds to the Company and did not change the Company's capital position or accounting for these securities, it did eliminate restrictions put in place by the Treasury on TARP recipients. The Treasury retained its related warrant to purchase up to 370,899 shares of our common stock at a price of $6.73 per share at any time through December 23, 2018. The dividends declared or accrued on the Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income (increase the net loss) to common shareholders and our net income (loss) per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 5.0% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2012 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock by December 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. The Company MOU prohibits us from redeeming our outstanding capital stock without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 23, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $830,000 annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $1.5 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to common shareholders. Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. We suspended our cash dividend during the quarter ended June 30, 2010 and we do not know if we will resume the payment of dividends in the future. Further, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current on our payments to dividend holders of our preferred stock, including the Series A preferred stock, at any time outstanding or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. In this regard, the FRB previously denied the Company’s requests to pay eight dividend payments on its Series A Preferred Stock from the May 15, 2010 payment through the August 15, 2012 payment. The FRB recently approved the Company's requests to pay prior unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. As of September 30, 2012, the Company has made all dividend payments on its Series A Preferred Stock. No assurance can be given, however, that the FRB will continue to permit the Company to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, under the terms of the Company MOU the payment of dividends by the Company to its shareholders is subject to the prior written non-objection of the FRB. As an entity separate and distinct from the Bank, the Company derives substantially all of its revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Accordingly, the Company is and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to satisfy its cash needs and to pay dividends on its common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Bank's ability to pay dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and, to meet certain regulatory requirements. As discussed above, under the Bank MOU, which was in effect as of September 30, 2012, the Bank could not pay dividends to the Company without prior approval from the FDIC and DFI, which also limits the Company's ability to pay dividends on its common stock. On December 12, 2012, the FDIC and the Division notified the Bank that the Bank MOU had been rescinded. The lack of a cash dividend could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 52 Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including legal and compliance risk, fraud and theft risk and the risk of operational errors, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation. We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by our regulators, or criminal proceedings, could involve large monetary claims, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations. Both internal and external fraud and theft are risks. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or if such information were to be intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Operational errors include clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Because of our large transaction volume and our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process these transactions there is a risk that technical flaws or tampering or manipulation of those automated systems arising from events wholly or partially beyond our control may give rise to a disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are exposed to the risk that our business continuity and data security systems may prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, additional costs to correct defects, potentially liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 53 