Risk Factors," that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For example, assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from future results include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully develop and market our products to customers; our ability to generate customer demand for our products in our target markets; the development of our target markets and market opportunities; our ability to manufacture suitable products at competitive cost; market pricing for our products and for competing products; the extent of increasing competition; technological developments in our target markets and the development of alternate, competing technologies in them; and sales of shares by existing shareholders. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Unless we are required to do so under federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Introduction eMagin Corporation designs, develops, manufactures, and markets virtual imaging products which utilize OLEDs, or organic light emitting diodes, OLED-on-silicon microdisplays and related information technology solutions. We integrate OLED technology with silicon chips to produce high-resolution microdisplays smaller than one-inch diagonally which, when viewed through a magnifier, create virtual images that appear comparable in size to that of a computer monitor or a large-screen television. Our products enable our original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, customers to develop and market improved or new electronic products. We believe that virtual imaging will become an important way for increasingly mobile people to have quick access to high resolution data, work, and experience new more immersive forms of communications and entertainment. Our first commercial product, the SVGA+ (Super Video Graphics Array of 800x600 picture elements plus 52 added columns of data) OLED microdisplay was initially offered for sampling in 2001, and our first SVGA-3D (Super Video Graphics Array plus built-in stereovision capability) OLED microdisplay was shipped in early 2002. These products have received award recognition including: SID Display of the Year and Electronic Products Magazine Product of the Year. These products are being applied or considered for near-eye and headset applications in products such as entertainment and gaming headsets, handheld Internet and telecommunication appliances, viewfinders, and wearable computers to be manufactured by OEM customers for military, medical, industrial, and consumer applications. We market our products globally. In 2006 we introduced our OLED-XL technology, which provides longer luminance half life and enhanced efficiency of eMagin's SVGA+ and SVGA-3D product lines. We are in the process of completing development of 2 additional OLED microdisplays, namely the SVGA 3DS (SVGA 3D shrink, a smaller format SVGA display with a new cell architecture with embedded features) and an SXGA (1280 x 1024 picture elements). In January 2005 we announced the world's first personal display system to combine OLED technology with head-tracking and 3D stereovision, the Z800 3DVisor(tm), which was first shipped in mid-2005. This product was recognized as a Digital Living Class of 2005 Innovators, and received the Consumer Electronics Association’s coveted Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2006 Best of Innovation Awards for the entire display category as well as a Design and Innovations Award for the electronic gaming category. In February 2007 the Z800 3DVisor, as integrated in Chatten Associates’ head-aimed remote viewer, was recognized as one of Advanced Imaging's Solutions of the Year. We believe that our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer a number of advantages over current liquid crystal microdisplays, including greatly increased system level power efficiency, less weight and wider viewing angles. Using our active matrix OLED technology, many computer and video electronic system functions can be built directly into the OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, resulting in compact systems with expected lower overall system costs relative to alternative microdisplay technologies. We have developed our own technology to create high performance OLED-on-silicon microdisplays and related optical systems and we have licensed certain fundamental OLED and display technology from Eastman Kodak. As the first to exploit OLED technology for microdisplays, and with the support of our partners and the development of our intellectual property, we believe that we enjoy a significant advantage in the commercialization of this display technology for virtual imaging. We believe we are the only company to sell full-color active matrix small molecule OLED-on-silicon microdisplays. eMagin Corporation was created through the merger of Fashion Dynamics Corporation ("FDC"), which was organized on January 23, 1996 under the laws of the State of Nevada and FED Corporation ("FED"), a developer and manufacturer of optical systems and microdisplays for use in the electronics industry. FDC had no active business operations other than to acquire an interest in a business. On March 16, 2000, FDC acquired FED. Simultaneous with this merger, we changed our name to eMagin Corporation. Following the merger, the business conducted by eMagin is the business conducted by FED prior to the merger. Our website is located at www.emagin.com and our e-commerce site is www.3dvisor.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our annual report on Forms 10K, our proxy statement, our quarterly reports on Forms 10Q, our current reports on Form 8K, and all amendments to such reports filed under the Securities and Exchange Act, earnings press releases, and other business-related press releases. We also post on our website the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating committees, our Codes of Ethics and any amendments of or waiver to those codes of ethics, and other corporate governance materials recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission as they occur. 4 Industry Overview A study by NanoMarkets (February 2007) predicts the overall OLED market will approach $10.9 billion in 2010 and grow to $15.5 billion by 2014. These markets include various sizes devices for a range of applications from cell phone size to viewfinder displays to televisions to lighting. Displays in general are sold as independent products (such as TV monitors) or as components of other systems (such as laptop computers). Our products target one segment of the display industry, the near-eye, personal display, which is viewed through a lens rather than directly, in comparison to desktop computer screens which are known as direct view displays. As an off-shoot of our work in microdisplays, we are also participating in government-funded development studies for OLED-based lighting. Personal displays, that is, near-eye systems based on microdisplays and optics, include video headsets, camcorders, viewfinders and other portable devices. Microdisplays are typically of such high resolution that they can be practically viewed only with magnifying optics. Although microdisplays are typically physically smaller than a postage stamp, they can provide a magnified viewing area similar to that of a full-size computer screen. For example, when magnified through a lens, a high-resolution 0.6-inch diagonal display can appear comparable to a 19- to 21-inch computer screen at about 2 feet from the viewer or a 60-inch TV screen at about 6 feet. The wearable display market, according to DisplaySearch, is expected to grow to at least $153 million in 2010. McLaughlin Consulting, in a report published December 2006, projects that, with effective marketing, the Personal Viewer market could reach nearly $1 billion in 2010. We believe that the most significant driver of the longer term near-eye virtual imaging microdisplay market is growing consumer demand for mobile access to larger volumes of information and entertainment in smaller packages. This desire for mobility has resulted in the development of near-eye microdisplay products in two general categories: (i) an established market for electronic viewers incorporated in products such as viewfinders for digital cameras and video cameras which may potentially also be developed as personal viewers for cell phones and (ii) an emerging market for headset-application platforms which include accessories for mobile devices such as notebook and sub-notebook computers, portable DVD systems, electronic games, and other entertainment, and wearable computers. Until now, near-eye virtual imaging microdisplay technologies have not simultaneously met all of the requirements for high resolution, full color, low power consumption, brightness, lifetime, size and cost which are required for successful commercialization in OEM consumer products. We believe that our new OLED-on-silicon microdisplay product line meets these requirements better than alternative products and will help to enable virtual imaging to emerge as an important display industry segment. Our Approach: OLED-on-Silicon Microdisplays and Optics There are two basic classes of organic light emitting diode, or OLED, technology, dubbed single molecule or small molecule (monomer) and polymer. Our microdisplays are currently based upon active matrix molecular OLED technology, which we call OLED-on-silicon because we build the displays directly on silicon chips. Our OLED-on-silicon technology uniquely permits millions of individual low-voltage light sources to be built on low-cost, silicon computer chips to produce single color, white or full-color display arrays. OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer a number of advantages over current liquid crystal microdisplays, including increased brightness, lower power requirements, less weight and wider viewing angles. Using our OLED technology, many computer and video electronic system functions can be built directly into the silicon chip, under the OLED film, resulting in very compact, integrated systems with lowered overall system costs relative to alternative technologies. We have developed our own proprietary and patented technology to create high performance OLED-on-silicon microdisplays and related optical systems, and we license fundamental OLED technology from Eastman Kodak. (See "Intellectual Property" and "Strategic Relationships"). We expect that the integration of our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays into mobile electronic products will result in lower overall system costs to our OEM customers. We believe that our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays will initiate a new generation of virtual imaging products that could have a profound impact on many industries. Headsets providing virtual screens surrounding the user in a sphere of data become a practical reality with our displays and a low cost head tracker. Because our microdisplays generate and emit light, they have a wider viewing angle than competing liquid crystal microdisplays, and because they have the same high brightness at all forward viewing angles, our microdisplays permit a large field-of-view and superior optical image. The wider viewing angle of our display results in the following superior optical characteristics in comparison with LCDs and other near-eye display technologies: · the user does not need to accurately position the head-wearable display to the eye; · the image will change minimally with eye movement and appear more natural; and · the display can be placed further from the eye and not cut off part of the image. 5 In addition, our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays offer faster response times and use much less power than competitive liquid crystal microdisplay systems. Our subsystem-level power consumption is so low that two SVGA, full color, full speed motion video computer displays can easily be run in stereovision off the power from a single USB port on a portable computer. Battery life is extended and weight is greatly reduced in systems using our products. Our SVGA+ OLED microdisplay stores all the color and luminance value information at each of the more than 1.5 million picture elements, or pixels, between refresh cycles in the display array, eliminating the flicker or color breakup seen by most other high-resolution microdisplay technologies. Even power efficient frame rates as low as 30 Hz can usually be used effectively. Power consumption at the system level is expected to be the lowest of any full-color, full-video SVGA resolution range, large view microdisplay on the market. The OLED's ability to emit light at wide angles allows customers to create large field of view (approx. 40 degrees), wide image capture range images from very compact, low-cost, one-piece optical systems. The display contains the majority of the electronics required for connection to the RGB (red, green, blue signal) port of a portable computer imbedded in its silicon chip backplane, thereby eliminating many other components required by other display technologies such as digital-analog converters, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), light sources, multiple optical elements, and other components. We believe that these features will enable our new class of microdisplay to potentially be the most compact, highest image quality, and lowest cost solution for high resolution near-eye applications, once they are in full production. We have also developed advanced lens technology which permits our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays to provide large field of view images that can be viewed for extended periods with reduced eye-fatigue. Molded plastic prism lenses have been developed to help our OEM customers obtain better quality, large area virtual images using our displays at relatively low cost in comparison to alternate approaches. Our Products Our first commercial microdisplay products are based on our "SVGA series" OLED microdisplays. We offer products utilizing both our proprietary “OLED” or “OLED-XL” technologies, applied to the same integrated circuit base. We offer our products to OEMs and other large volume buyers as both separate components, integrated bundles coupled with our own optics, or full systems. We also offer engineering support to enable customers to quickly integrate our products into their own product development programs. (1) OLED Microdisplay Component Products SVGA+ OLED Microdisplay (Super Video Graphics Array of 800x600 plus 52 added columns of data). Our 0.62 inch diagonal SVGA+ OLED microdisplays have a resolution of 852x600 triad pixels (1.53 million picture elements). The product was dubbed "SVGA+" because it has 52 more display columns than a standard SVGA display, permitting users to run either (1) standard SVGA (800 x 600 pixels) to interface to the analog output of many portable computers or (2) 852 x 480, using all the data available from a DVD player in a 16:9 wide screen entertainment format. The display also has an internal NTSC monochrome video decoder for low power night vision systems. SVGA-3D OLED Microdisplay (Super Video Graphics Array plus built-in stereovision capability). Our 0.59 inch diagonal SVGA-3D OLED microdisplays have a resolution of 800x600 triad pixels (1.44 million picture elements). A built-in circuit provides compatibility with single channel frame sequential stereoscopic vision without additional external components. Microdisplays Under Development. We are developing two additional display products, a smaller format (SVGA-3DS) version of our SVGA display, which will have 800 x 600 triad pixels and be 0.44 inch diagonal and an 0.77 inch SXGA OLED microdisplay with resolution of 1280x 1024 triad pixels. These new products offer both analog and digital signal inputs in a compact display with greater power efficiency. With the world’s finest pitch (11.1 microns) and a high level of integrated functionality, the SVGA-3DS provides a simple path to system integration in a small format. The SXGA split chip architecture offers unprecedented power consumption savings for this display format in addition to a highly flexible system interface configuration. Lens and Design Reference Kits. We offer a WF05 prism optic, with mounting brackets or combined with OLED microdisplays to form an optic-display module. We provide Design Reference Kits, which include a microdisplay and associated electronics to help OEMs evaluate our microdisplay products and to assist their efforts to build and test new products incorporating our microdisplays. Integrated Modules. We provide near-eye virtual imaging modules that incorporate our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays with our lenses and electronic interfaces for integration into OEM products. We have shipped customized modules to several customers, some of which have incorporated our products into their own commercial products. 6 (2) Personal Display Systems (Head-Wearable and Headset Systems) Our Z800 3DVisors(tm) give users the ability to work with their hands while simultaneously viewing information or video on the display. The Z800 3DVisor enables more versatile portable computing, using a 0.59-inch diagonal microdisplay (SVGA-3D capable of delivering an image that appears comparable to that of a 19-inch monitor at 22 to 24 inches from the eye, or a 105 inch movie screen at 12 foot distance. Our systems are currently being used for personal entertainment, electronic gaming, and military training and simulation, among other applications. We believe that personal display systems will fill the increasing demand for instant data accessibility and privacy in mobile workplaces. We sell the personal display systems to OEM systems and equipment customers, through distributors, and through our e-commerce website, www.3dvisor.com. Our Market Opportunity - Personal Display Systems Platforms, including Head-wearable Displays The growth potential of our selected target market segments have been investigated using information gathered from key industry market research firms, including DisplaySearch, Frost and Sullivan, Fuji-Chimera, International Data Corporation, Nikkei, SEMI, Stanford Resources-iSuppli and others. Such data was obtained using published reports and data obtained at industry symposia. We have also relied substantially on market projections obtained privately from industry leaders, industry analysts, and current and potential customers. The virtual-imaging markets we are targeting include industrial, medical, military, arcade games, 3-D CAD/Virtual Reality, and wearable computers. Within each of these market sectors, we believe that our microdisplays, when combined with compact optic lenses, will become a key component for a number of mobile electronic products. Applications we are targeting the following: Head-wearable displays incorporate microdisplays mounted in or on eyeglasses, goggles, simple headbands, helmets, or hardhats, and are often referred to as head-mounted displays (HMDs) or headsets. Head-wearable displays may block out surroundings for a fully immersive experience, or be designed as "see-through" or "see-around" to the user's surroundings. They may contain one (monocular) or two (binocular) displays. Some of the increased current interest is due to accelerating the timetable to adapt such systems to military applications such as night vision and fire and rescue applications. These have military, commercial, and consumer applications. Military Military demand for head-wearable displays is currently being met with microdisplay technologies that we believe to be inferior to our OLED-on-silicon products. The new generation of soldiers will be highly mobile, and will often need to carry highly computerized communications and surveillance equipment. To enable interaction with the digital battlespace, rugged, yet lightweight and energy efficient technology is required. Currently available microdisplay technologies do not meet the requirements for low power, hands-free, day and night-viewable displays. As a COTS (commercial off the shelf) component, OLED microdisplays demonstrate performance characteristics important to military and other demanding commercial and industrial applications including high brightness and resolution, wide dimming range, wider temperature operating ranges, shock and vibration resistance and insensitivity to high G-forces. The image does not suffer from flicker or color breakup in vibrating environments, and the microdisplay's wide viewing angle allows ease of viewing for long periods of time. The OLED's very low power consumption reduces battery weight and increases allowed mission length. Properly implemented, we believe that head-mounted systems incorporating our microdisplays will increase effectiveness by allowing hands-free operation and increasing situational awareness with enough brightness to be used in daylight, yet controllable for nighttime light security. The OLED's inherent wide temperature range is especially of interest for military applications because the display can turn on instantly at temperatures far below freezing and can operate at very high temperatures in desert conditions. Our OLED microdisplays have been selected for a range of defense-security applications, including a situational awareness HMD for the US Army Land Warrior programs, a handheld thermal imager for border patrol and training, and simulation virtual monitors for Quantum 3D. The Land Warrior, a baseline program in the Army's drive to digitize the battlefield, is an integrated digital system that incorporates computerized communication, navigation, targeting and protection systems for use by the twenty-first century infantry soldier. Rockwell Collins, the principal contractor for the US Army's Land Warrior HMD system, and eMagin applied their respective expertise in HMD and imaging technology to develop rugged, yet lightweight and energy efficient products meeting the requirements of tomorrow's soldier. Our display is also used in Rockwell Collins’ commercially available ProView S035 Monocular HMD. Night Vision Equipment Corporation's HelmetIR-50(TM), a lightweight, military helmet mounted thermal imager, which provides hands-free operation and allows viewers to see through total darkness, battlefield obscurants, and even foliage, is the first OLED-equipped product to be listed on the US Government's GSA schedule. Virtually Better Inc. has incorporated our Z800 3DVisor into its “Virtual Iraq” treatment for post-traumatic stress disorders. In addition, our displays have been commercialized, or planned to be commercialized, by military systems integrators including DRS, Elbit, Insight Technologies, Nivisys, Qioptiq, Saab, Sagem, and Thales, , among others. We cannot assure that Government projects will remain on schedule, or that they will be fully implemented. Similar systems are of interest for other military applications as well as for related operations such as urban security, fire and rescue. 7 Commercial, Industrial, and Medical We believe that a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets offer significant opportunities due to increasing demand for instant data accessibility in mobile workplaces. Some examples of microdisplay applications include: immediate access to inventory such as parts, tools and equipment availability; instant accessibility to maintenance or construction manuals; routine quality assurance inspection; endoscopic surgery; and real-time viewing of images and data for a variety of applications. As one potential example, a user wearing a HMD while using test equipment, such as oscilloscopes, can view technical data while simultaneously probing printed circuit boards. Commercial products in these sectors include Sage Technologies, Ltd.'s Helmet Vue (TM) Thermal Imaging System and Liteye's 500. VRmagic GmbH, a leading developer of virtual reality simulators, is using our OLED microdisplays in their EYESI(TM) Virtual Reality Surgical Simulator, which provides real-time simulation of ophthalmic surgery, high performance biomechanical tissue simulation, precision tracking, and realistic stereo imaging. Sensics has incorporated our OLED displays in their immersive SkyVizor (TM) virtual reality headset to serve as the "eyes" of the Robonaut, a humanoid robot being developed by NASA and Department of Defense agencies. The Robonaut system can work side by side with humans, or alone in high-risk situations. Telepresence uses virtual reality display technology to visually immerse the operator into the robot's workspace, facilitating operation and interaction with the Robonaut, and potentially reducing the number of dangerous space walks required of real astronauts. Another recent example is Saab Avitronics, which has chosen eMagin microdisplays for its news Multi-Purpose Virtual Image Display (VID) which comprises high-performance magnifying optics and the OLED, sealed in an aluminum casing. Consumer Once our displays are manufactured in high volumes at reduced costs, we believe that our head-wearable display products may enhance the following consumer products: · Entertainment and gaming video headset systems, which permit individuals to view television, including HDTV, video CDs, DVDs and video games on virtual large screens or stereovision in private without disturbing others. We believe that these new headset game systems can provide a game or telepresence experience not otherwise practical using conventional direct view display technology. The advent of video iPods and the rapidly increasing amount of downloadable content have accelerated the movement toward portable video technology. At the same time, the desire for larger screen sizes while retaining the iPod portability has been referenced in many publications. Virtual imaging uniquely provides a large, high resolution view in a small portable package, and we believe that our OLED on silicon technology is a best fit to help open this market. · Notebook computers, which can use head-wearable devices to reduce power requirements as well as expand the apparent screen size and increase privacy. Current notebook computers do not use microdisplays. Our products can apply not only to new models of notebook computers, but also as aftermarket attachments to older notebooks still in use. The display can be easily used as a second monitor on notebook computers for ease of editing multiple documents to provide multiple screens or for data privacy while traveling. It can also be used to provide larger screen capability for viewing spreadsheets or complex computer aided design (CAD) files. We expect to market our head-wearable displays to be used as plug-in peripherals to be compatible with most notebook computers. We believe that the SVGA-3D microdisplay is well suited for most portable PC headsets. Our microdisplays can be operated using the USB power source of most portable computers. This eliminates added power supplies, batteries, and rechargers and reduces system complexity and cost. · Handheld personal computers, whose small, direct view screens are often limitations, but which are now capable of running software applications that would benefit from a larger display. Microdisplays can be built into handheld computers to display more information content on virtual screens without forfeiting portability or adding the cost a larger direct view screen. Microdisplays are not currently used in this market. We believe that GPS viewers and other novel products are likely to develop as our displays become more available. The combination of power efficiency, high resolution, low systems cost, brightness and compact size offered by our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays has not been made available to makers and integrators of existing entertainment and gaming video headset systems, notebook computers and handheld computers. We believe that our microdisplays have the potential to propel the growth of new products and applications such as lightweight wearable computer systems. Our Strategy Our strategy is to establish and maintain a leadership position as a worldwide supplier of microdisplays and virtual imaging technology solutions for applications in high growth segments of the electronics industry by capitalizing on our leadership in both OLED-on-silicon technology and microdisplay lens technology. We aim to provide microdisplay and complimentary accessories to enable OEM customers to develop and manufacture new and enhanced electronic products. Some key elements of our strategy to achieve these objectives include the following: · Leverage our superior technology to establish a leading market position. As the first to exploit OLED-on-silicon microdisplays, we believe that we enjoy a significant advantage in bringing this technology to market. 8 · Optimize manufacturing efficiencies by outsourcing while protecting proprietary processes. We outsource certain portions of microdisplay production, such as chip fabrication, to minimize both our costs and time to market. We intend to retain the OLED application and OLED sealing processes in-house. We believe that these areas are where we have a core competency and manufacturing expertise. We also believe that by keeping these processes under tight control we can better protect our proprietary technology and process know-how. This strategy will also enhance our ability to continue to optimize and customize processes and devices to meet customer needs. By performing the processes in-house we can continue to directly make improvements in the processes, which will improve device performance. We also retain the ability to customize certain aspects such as color balance, which is known as chromaticity, as well as specialized boards or interfaces, and to adjust other parameters at the customer's request. In the area of lenses and head-wearable displays, we intend to focus on design and development, while working with third parties for the manufacture and distribution of finished products. We intend to prototype new optical systems, provide customization of optical systems, and manufacture limited volumes, but we intend to outsource high volume manufacturing operations. There are numerous companies that provide these outsource services. · Build and maintain strong internal design capabilities. As more circuitry is added to OLED-on-silicon devices, the cost of the end product using the display can be decreased; therefore integrated circuit design capability will become increasingly important to us. To meet these requirements, we utilize in-house design capabilities supplemented by outsourced design services. Building and maintaining this capacity will allow us to reduce engineering costs, accelerate the design process and enhance design accuracy to respond to our customers' needs as new markets develop. In addition, we intend to maintain a product design staff capable of rapidly developing prototype products for our customers and strategic partners. Contracting third party design support to meet demand and for specialized design skills will also remain a part of our overall long term strategy. Our Strategic Relationships Strategic relationships have been an important part of our research and development efforts to date and are an integral part of our plans for commercial product launch. We have forged strategic relationships with major OEMs and strategic suppliers. We believe that strategic relationships allow us to better determine the demands of the marketplace and, as a result, allow us to focus our future research and development activities to better meet our customer's requirements. Moreover, we expect to provide microdisplays and Microviewers(TM) to some of these partners, thereby taking advantage of established distribution channels for our products. Eastman Kodak is a technology partner in OLED development, OLED materials, and a potential future customer for both specialty market display systems and consumer market microdisplays. We license Eastman Kodak's OLED and optics technology portfolio. We have a nonexclusive; perpetual, worldwide license to use Eastman Kodak patented OLED technology and associated intellectual property in the development, use, manufacture, import and sale of microdisplays. The license covers emissive active matrix microdisplays with a diagonal size of less than 2 inches for all OLED display technology previously developed by Kodak. An annual minimum royalty is paid at the beginning of each calendar year and is fully creditable against the royalties we are obligated to pay based on net sales throughout the year. Eastman Kodak and eMagin have engaged in numerous discussions regarding potential product applications for eMagin's microdisplays by Eastman Kodak. We are working cooperatively with the US Army, US Navy, and with several military system integrators to further characterize operation of our displays in rugged military environments. We have a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the US Army Night Vision Electronic Sensors Directorate (NVESD) to characterize performance of our displays. We are currently partnering with the University of Michigan to develop advanced display process via a government-sponsored research program. We intend to continue to establish additional strategic relationships in the future. We are a member of the United States Display Consortium (USDC), a cooperative effort between industry and government whose charter is to develop an infrastructure to support North American flat panel display manufacturing. It has more than 100 members, as well as support from the Department of Defense. The USDC’s role is to provide a common platform for flat panel display manufacturers, developers, users and the manufacturing equipment and supplier base. Our Technology Platforms OLED-on-Silicon Technology Scientists working at Eastman Kodak invented OLEDs in the early 1980s. OLEDs are thin films of stable organic materials that emit light of various colors when a voltage is impressed across them. OLEDs are emissive devices, which mean they create their own light, as opposed to liquid crystal displays, which require a separate light source. As a result, OLED devices use less power and can be capable of higher brightness and fuller color than liquid crystal microdisplays. Because the light they emit is Lambertian, which means that it appears equally bright from most forward directions, a moderate movement in the eye does not change the image brightness or color as it does in existing technologies. OLED films may be coated on computer chips, permitting millions of individual low-voltage light sources to be built on silicon integrated circuits to produce single color, white or full-color display arrays. Many computer and video electronic system functions can be built directly into a silicon integrated circuit as part of the OLED display, resulting in an ultra-compact system. We believe these features, together with the well-established silicon integrated circuit fabrication technology of the semiconductor industry, make our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays attractive for numerous applications. 9 We believe our technology licensing agreement with Eastman Kodak, coupled with our own intellectual property portfolio, gives us a leadership position in OLED and OLED-on-silicon microdisplay technology. Eastman Kodak provides OLED technology and we provide additional technology advancements that have enabled us to coat the silicon integrated circuits with OLEDs. We have developed numerous and significant enhancements to OLED technology as well as key silicon circuit designs to effectively incorporate the OLED film on a silicon integrated circuit. For example, we have developed a unique, top-emitting structure for our OLED-on-silicon devices that enables OLED displays to be built on opaque silicon integrated circuits rather than only on glass. Our OLED devices can emit full visible spectrum light that can be isolated with color filters to create full color images. Our microdisplay prototypes have a brightness that can be greater than that of a typical notebook computer and can have a potential useful life of over 50,000 operating hours, in certain applications. New materials and device improvements in development offer future potential for even better performance for brightness, efficiency, and lifespan. Additionally, we have invested considerable work over several years to develop unique electronics control and drive designs for OLED-on-silicon microdisplays. In addition to our OLED-on-silicon technology, we have developed compact optic and lens enhancements which, when coupled with the microdisplay, provide the high quality large screen appearance that we believe a large proportion of the marketplace demands. Advantages of OLED Technology We believe that our OLED-on-silicon technology provides significant advantages over existing solutions in our targeted microdisplay markets. We believe these key advantages will include: · Low manufacturing cost; · Low cost system solutions; · Wide angle light emission resulting in large apparent screen size; · Low power consumption for improved battery life and longer system life; · High brightness for improved viewing; · High-speed performance resulting in clear video images; · Wide operating temperature range; and · Good environmental stability (vibration and humidity). Low manufacturing cost. Many OLED-on-silicon microdisplays can be built on an 8-inch silicon wafer using existing automated OLED and color filter processing tools. The level of automation used lowers labor costs. Only a minute amount of OLED material is used in each OLED-on-silicon microdisplay so that material costs, other than the integrated circuit itself, are small. The number of displays per silicon wafer may be higher on OLEDs than on liquid crystal displays, or LCDs, because OLEDs do not require a space-wasting perimeter seal band. Expensive transparent wafers with CMOS silicon laminated onto quartz are not required for OLED microdisplays, as standard CMOS chips may be used as backplanes. Low cost systems solutions. In general, an OEM using OLED-on-silicon microdisplays will not need to purchase and incorporate lighting assemblies, color converter related Applications Specific Integrated Circuits, or ASICs, or beam splitter lenses as is the case in liquid crystal microdisplays, which also require illumination. Many important display-related system functions can be incorporated into an OLED-on-silicon microdisplay, reducing the size and cost of the system. Non-polarized light from OLEDs permit lenses for many OLED-on-silicon applications that are made of a single piece of molded plastic, which reduces size, weight and assembly cost when compared to the multipiece lens systems used for liquid crystal microdisplays. System cost relative to liquid crystal and liquid crystal on silicon, or LCOS, competitive products is thus reduced. Because our displays are power efficient, they typically require less power at the system level than other display technologies at a given display size and brightness. Wide-angle light emission simplifies optics for large apparent screen size. OLEDs emit light at most forward directions from each pixel. This permits the display to be placed close to the lens in compact optical systems. It also provides the added benefit of less angular dependence on the image quality relative to pupil and eye position when showing a large field of view, unlike reflective LCOS microdisplays. This results in less eye fatigue and makes it relatively easy to low power consumption for improved battery life and longer system life. OLEDs emit light rather than transmitting it, so no power-consuming backlight or front light, as required for liquid crystal displays, is required. OLEDs can be energy efficient because of their high efficiency light generation. Furthermore, OLEDs conserve power by powering only those pixels that are on while liquid crystal on silicon requires light at all pixels all the time. Most optical systems used for our OLEDs are highly efficient, permitting over 80% of the light to reach the eye, whereas reflective technologies such as liquid crystal on silicon require multiple beam splitters to get light to the display, and then into the optical system. This results in typically less than 25% light throughput efficiency in reflective microdisplay systems. Most important, we do not need a power-hungry video frame buffer, as required in liquid crystal frame-sequential color systems. Battery life can therefore be extended. 10 High brightness for improved viewing. This feature can be of great value to military applications, where there is a need to see the computer image overlaid onto brightly lit real-life backgrounds such as desert sand, water reflections or sunlit clouds. The OLED can be operated over a large luminance range without loss of gray level control, permitting the displays to be used in a range of dark environments to very bright ambient applications. Since military simulation and situation awareness applications, including night vision, typically require large fields of view, the OLED's Lambertian optical characteristics make it an excellent choice. High-speed performance resulting in clear video image. OLEDs switch much more rapidly than liquid crystals or most cathode ray tubes, or CRTs. This results in smear-free video rate imagery and provides improved image quality for DVD playback applications. This eliminates visible image smear and makes practicable three-dimensional stereo imaging using a split frame rate. This advantage of our OLED-on-silicon is very important for 3-D stereovision gaming applications. Flicker-free and no color breakup. Because the OLED-on-silicon stores brightness and color information at each pixel, the display can be run with no noticeable flicker and no color sequential breakup, even at low refresh rates. A lower refresh rate not only helps reduce power, but it also facilitates system integration. Color sequential breakup occurs in systems such as liquid crystal on silicon and some liquid crystal display microdisplays when red, green and blue frames are sequentially imaged in time for the eye to combine. Since the different color screens occur at different times, movement of the eye due to vibration or just fast pupil movement can create color bands at each dark-light edge, making the image unpleasant to view and making text difficult to read. For example, the liquid crystal on silicon display needs to run at least three times the "normal" frame rate or speed to produce color sequential images, which wastes power and makes for a difficult technological challenge as display resolutions increase. Wide operating temperature range. Our OLEDs offer much less temperature sensitivity at both high and low temperatures than LCDs. LCDs are sluggish or non-operative much below freezing unless heaters are added and lose contrast above 50 degrees Celsius, while our OLEDs turn on instantly and can operate between -55 degrees Celsius and 130 degrees Celsius. We specify a smaller temperature range on most consumer products to accommodate lower cost packaging. This is an important characteristic for many portable products that may be used outdoors in many varying environmental conditions. It is especially important for military customers. Insensitivity to vibration, shock, and pressure are also important environmental control attributes. Complementary lens and system technologies. We have developed a wide range of technologies which complement our core OLED and lens technologies and which will enhance our competitive position in the microdisplay and head-wearable display markets. These include: Lens technology. High quality, large view lenses with a wide range for eye positioning are essential for using our displays in near-eye systems. We have developed advanced lens technology for microdisplays and personal head-wearable display systems and hold key patents in these areas. Our lens technology permits our OLED-on-silicon microdisplays to provide large field of view images that can be viewed for extended periods with reduced eye-fatigue. We have engaged a firm to manufacture our lenses in order to provide them in larger quantities to our customers and are using them in our own personal display systems. We believe that the key advantages of our lens technology include: · Can be very low cost, with minimal assembly. A one piece, molded plastic optic attached to the microdisplay has been introduced and may potentially serve consumer end-product markets. Since our process is plastic molding, our per unit production costs are low; · Allows a compact and lightweight lens system that can greatly magnify a microdisplay to produce a large field of view. For example, our WF05 prism lens, in combination with our SVGA OLED microdisplay, provides a virtual view equivalent to that of a 105-inch diagonal display viewed at 12 feet; · Can use single-piece molded microdisplay lenses to permit high light throughput making the display image brighter or permitting the use of less power for an acceptable brightness; · Can be designed to provide focusing to enable users with various eyesight qualities to view images clearly; and · Can optionally provide focal plane adjustment for simultaneous focusing of computer images and real world objects. For example, this characteristic is beneficial for word processing or spreadsheet applications where a person is typing data in from reference material. This feature can make it easier for people with moderately poor accommodation to use a head-wearable display as a portable computer-viewing accessory. Personal display system technology. We have developed ergonomic technologies that make head-wearable displays easier to use in a wide variety of applications. For example, the use of our patented rotatable Eyeblocker(TM) provides a sharp image without requiring most users to squint. The Eyeblocker can also be moved to create an effective see-through appearance. To our knowledge, we have made the lightest weight, high-resolution head-wearable display with an over 35 degree diagonal field of view ever publicly demonstrated. We have also incorporated low cost, small size, high speed headtrackers to further enhance game and telepresence applications. 11 Sales and Marketing We primarily provide display components for OEMs to incorporate into their branded products and sell through their own well-established distribution channels. In addition, we market head-wearable displays directly to various vertical market channels, such as medical, industrial, and government customers. A typical buyer is a manufacturer of a product requiring a specific resolution of visual display or viewfinder for insertion into a product such as a portable DVD headset, a PC-gaming headset, or an instrument. We market our services in North America, Asia, and Europe primarily through direct technical sales from our headquarters. Regular purchase orders are processed by our customer service coordinators and technical questions related to product purchases or product applications are processed by our technical support team. As a market-driven company, we assess customer needs both quantitatively and qualitatively, through market research and direct communications. Because our microdisplays are the main functional component that defines many of our customers' end products, we work closely with potential customers to define our products to optimize the final design, typically on a senior engineer-to-engineer basis. Our personal display systems are sold through select value-added resellers and on-line through PC Mall, Google Checkout, and our e-commerce site, www.3dvisor.com. We identify companies with end products and applications for which we believe that our products will provide a system level solution and for which our products can be a key differentiator. We target both market leaders and select early adopter companies; their acceptance validates our technology and approach in the market. We believe successful marketing will require relationships with recognized consumer brand companies. Near term sales efforts for OLED microdisplays have been focused on our military, industrial, and medical customers. We have received production orders and design wins for both the SVGA+ and SVGA 3D displays. To date, we have shipped products and evaluation kits to more than 200 OEM customers. An OEM design cycle typically requires between 6 and 36 months, depending on the uniqueness of the market and the complexity of the end product. New product development may require several design iterations prior to commercialization. Some of our initial customers have completed their initial evaluation cycle and we continue to receive follow-on orders and notification of product purchase decisions. (See "Our Market Opportunity: Military; Commercial, Industrial, and Medical; and Consumer") Customers Customers for our products include both large multinational and smaller OEMs. We maintain relationships with OEMs in a diverse range of industries encompassing the military, industrial, medical, and consumer market sectors. During 2007, 51% of our net revenue was to firms based in the United States and 49% was to international firms as compared to 59% domestic revenue and 41% international revenue during 2006. In 2007, we had 10 customers that accounted for more than 54% of our total revenue as compared to 5 customers that accounted for more than 68% of our total revenue in 2006. In 2007, we did not have any customers that accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue as compared to 2006, when we had one customer that accounted for 13% of our total revenues. Backlog As of March 14, 2008, we had a backlog of approximately $7.3 million for purchases through December 31, 2008. This backlog consists of purchase orders and purchase agreements but does not include expected revenue from R&D contracts or expected NRE (non-recurring engineering) programs under development. The majority of our backlog consists of purchase agreements for delivery over the next 12 months. Most purchase orders are subject to rescheduling or cancellation by the customer with no or limited penalties. Because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellations and potential delays in product shipments, our backlog as of a particular date may not be indicative of net sales for any succeeding period. Some customers have experienced delays in their expected product launch schedules due to their own product development delays not directly related to our microdisplays, such as development of custom optics or other aspects of their end product, or by delays in government programs contracted to them. Research and Development Near-to-the-eye virtual imaging and OLED technology are relatively new technologies that have considerable room for substantial improvements in luminance, life, power efficiency, voltage swing, design compactness, field of view, optical range of visibility, headtracking options, wireless control and many other parameters. We anticipate that achieving reductions in manufacturing costs will require new technology developments. We also anticipate that improving the performance, capability and cost of our products will provide an important competitive advantage in our fast moving, high technology marketplace. Past and current research activities include development of improved OLED and display device structures, developing and/or evaluating new materials (including the synthesis of new organic molecules), manufacturing equipment and process development, electronics design methodologies and new circuits and the development of new lenses and related systems. In 2007, we spent approximately $2.9 million on research and development. In 2007 we continued to research more efficient materials and processes. We also completed the primary designs of our new smaller display, the SVGA 3DS, as well as the design of the SXGA. 12 External relationships play an important role in our research and development efforts. Suppliers, equipment vendors, government organizations, contract research groups, external design companies, customer and corporate partners, consortia, and university relationships all enhance the overall research and development effort and bring us new ideas (See "Strategic Relationships"). U.S. Government-Funded Research We have entered into several U.S. government contracts to fund a portion of our efforts to develop next-generation OLED technologies for a variety of applications. These include, among others, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase II program contracts for continued research and development and the fabrication of prototypes. On contracts for which we are the prime contractor, we subcontract portions of the work to various entities and institutions, including the University of Michigan. Our recent government contracts include the following: OLED Performance and Reliability Improvement for Active Matrix OLED Microdisplays. Armed forces as well as other security related agencies are relying increasingly on the benefits of OLED technology in active matrix microdisplays. Applications range from night vision thermal imaging to tactical awareness and communication systems to weapons-mounted sights, among others. As the systems capabilities are expanded, the need for higher brightness and ability to display static imagery such as maps and drawings is growing, placing higher demands on the OLED technology. In 2007 eMagin was awarded a contract managed by the Night Vision Electronic Sensors Directorate (NVESD) with funding by the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill. The objective of the program is to improve on the present performance of the microdisplay-based OLED technology from lifetime, efficiency and reliability standpoints. For 2007, we received approximately $360 thousand of the $1.12 million program. The FY 2008 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill has provided for continuation of a second phase of the program Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) Display Technology for Military Aircraft. In 2007 we continued our efforts to develop a robust thin film encapsulation technique for OLED displays under a Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program from the US Navy. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI is the university partner for this STTR. Many new schemes to encapsulate OLED devices with thin film techniques were developed, evaluated and tested under accelerated environmental condition. The contract expired on February 29, 2008. For 2007 we received approximately $328 thousand in funding under this program. Ultra High Resolution Display for Army Medicine. In 2007 we formally initiated efforts on a multiple year program under contract with the US Army TATRC (Telemedicine and Advanced Technologies Research Center) with funding provided by the FY 2006 and 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations Bills. The culmination of this multiple year effort will provide an ultra-high resolution, wide field of view display system suitable for dual-use application within Army medicine, U.S. military simulation and training, and commercial uses. We received approximately $698 thousand in funding during 2007 under this contract and expect to receive approximately $2 million during 2008. High Dynamic Range Microdisplay Feasibility Study. The US Army/RDECOM/NVESD and eMagin Corporation have established a CRADA (Cooperative Research and Development Agreement) with the goal of evaluating and characterizing new and existing AMOLED microdisplay configurations with an emphasis on the usable lifetime of the displays. This work is aimed at developing AMOLED microdisplays capable of being fielded in a wide range of US Army applications. The effort is for a 3 month period and is a feasibility study aimed at evaluating several concepts leading to a higher dynamic range without changing the existing pixel driver design of the microdisplays. If successful, a second phase can be considered addressing a complete high dynamic range OLED microdisplay. The total program cost for the 3 month program is approximately $236 thousand. The program started on March 14, 2008. Manufacturing Facilities We are located at IBM's Microelectronics Division facility, known as the Hudson Valley Research Park, located about 70 miles north of New York City in Hopewell Junction, New York. We lease approximately 33,000 square feet of space which houses our own equipment for OLED microdisplay fabrication and research and development, includes a 16,300 square foot class 10 clean room space, additional lower level clean room space, assembly space and administrative offices. Facilities services provided by IBM include our clean room, pure gases, high purity de-ionized water, compressed air, chilled water systems, and waste disposal support. This infrastructure provided by our lease with IBM provides us with many of the resources of a larger corporation without the added overhead costs. It further allows us to focus our resources more efficiently on our product development and manufacturing goals. 13 We lease additional non-clean room facilities for chemical mixing, cleaning, chemical systems, and glass/silicon cutting. OLED chemicals can be purified in our facility with our own equipment, permitting the company to evaluate new chemicals in pilot production that are not yet available in suitable purity for OLED applications on the market. Our display fabrication process starts with the silicon wafer, which is manufactured by a semiconductor foundry using conventional CMOS process. After a device is designed by a combination of internal and external designers with customer participation, we outsource wafer fabrication. Our manufacturing process for OLED-on-silicon microdisplays has three main components: organic film deposition, organic film encapsulation (also known as sealing), and color filter processing. All steps are performed in semi-automated, hands-free environment suitable for high volume throughput. An automated cluster tool provides all OLED deposition steps in a highly controlled environment that is the centerpiece of our OLED fabrication. After wafer processing, each part is inspected using an automated inspection system, prior to shipment. We have electrical and optical instrumentation required to characterize the performance of our displays including photometric and color coordinate analysis. We are also equipped for integrated circuit and electronics design and display testing. We also lease a facility in Bellevue, Washington where we operate our system development effort and business development activities. The facilities are well suited for designing and building limited volume prototypes and small quantity industrial or government products. Cables and electronic interfaces have recently been produced to permit our OEM customers to more rapidly create products and shorten their time-to-market. We plan to outsource medium to high volume subsystem production to low cost plastics, lenses, and assembly manufacturers. We are currently using domestic and international outside manufacturers and we are investigating new outsource opportunities. We believe that manufacturing efficiency is an important factor for success in the consumer markets. We believe that high yield and maximum utilization of our equipment set will be key for profitability. The equipment required for initial profitable production is in place. Some equipment will be added when our production volume increases or as needed. Intellectual Property We have developed a significant intellectual property portfolio of patents, trade secrets and know-how, supported by our license from Eastman Kodak and our current patent portfolio. Our license from Eastman Kodak gives us the right to use in miniature displays a portfolio in organic light emitting diode and optics technology, some of which are fundamental. Our agreement with Eastman Kodak provides for perpetual access to the OLED technology for our OLED-on-silicon applications, provided we remain active in the field and meet our contractual requirements to Eastman Kodak. We also generate intellectual property as a result of our internal research and development activities. Our patents and patent applications cover a wide range of materials, device structures, processes, and fabrication techniques, such as methods of fabricating full color OLEDs. We believe that our patent applications relating to up-emitting structures on opaque substrates such as silicon wafers, which are critical for OLED microdisplays, and applications relating to the hermetic sealing of such structures are particularly important. Our patents are concentrated in the following areas: · OLED Materials, Structures, and Processes; · Display Color Processing and Sealing; · Active Matrix Circuit Methodologies and Designs; · Field Emission and General Display Technologies; · Lenses and Tracking (Eye and Head); · Ergonomics and Industrial Design; and · Wearable Computer Interface Methodology We also rely on proprietary processes, trade secrets, and know-how related to OLED technologies and materials which are not patented. To protect this information and know-how from unauthorized use or disclosure,, we require all employees, and where appropriate, contractors, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality and non-competition agreements, . There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We believe that our intellectual property portfolio, coupled with our strategic relationships and accumulated experience in the OLED field, gives us an advantage over potential competitors. 14 Competition The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We may face competition from legacy technologies such as CRTs as well as from alternative flat panel display technologies. We believe that our key competition will come from liquid crystal on silicon microdisplays, or LCOS, also known as reflective liquid crystal displays and small transmissive LCDs. While we believe that OLED-on-silicon has the capability to provide higher quality image quality images, greater environmental ruggedness, reduced electronics cost and complexity, and improved power efficiency advantages over either type of liquid crystal based microdisplays, there is no assurance that these benefits will be fully realized or that liquid crystal manufacturers will not suitably improve these parameters to reduce these potential advantages of OLEDs. Most companies pursuing liquid crystal on silicon technology, such as Syntax/Brillian Corporation, among others, have primarily focused on projection microdisplays, which do not compete directly with us. In most near-to-the-eye imaging markets, we face more serious competition from developers of transmissive liquid crystal displays, such as those developed by Kopin, or possibly laser scanning systems, such as those developed by Microvision Corporation. Large amounts of investment in a intrinsically weaker technology can potentially overcome advantages of one technology over another. To our knowledge, the only other company that has publicly stated plans to develop OLED microdisplays for near-eye applications is MicroEmissive Displays (MED) in Britain. MED has raised substantial funds and created a newer facility than ours. This competition has not been significant to date, but could become more serious if they enter our markets with directly relevant display designs and resolve their manufacturing and reliability-lifetime issues. We may also compete with potential licensees of Universal Display Corporation, Eastman Kodak, or Sumitomo Corporation and other companies, each of which potentially can license OLED technology portfolios. Even though we could also potentially license technology from these developers, potential competitors could also obtain such licenses and may do so at more favorable royalty rates or allocate more resources to the competitive effort than we could obtain. However, should they decide to embark on developing microdisplays on silicon, we believe that our progress to date in this area gives us a substantial head start. Employees As of March 14, 2008, we had a total of 65 full time and part time staff. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. Subsequent Events On January 30, 2008 the Moriah Agreement (as defined below) was amended and restated (a) to provide Borrowing Base eligibility for Foreign Accounts at 70 percent of the accounts receivable balance so long as the individual account has not experienced a past due history during the previous two years, (b) to amend the note agreement to eliminate the optional conversion of principal up to $2.0 million of principal into common stock at a price of $1.50 per share in lieu of issuance of a warrant to purchase 750,000 shares of the Company’s commons stock at a price of $1.50 per share with an expiration date of January 29, 2013, and (c) to amend the Company’s share registration obligation to complete the filing of a registration statement within thirty days of the execution of the amendment. On March 25, 2008 the Moriah Agreement was again amended (the “Moriah Amendment”) to provide certain waivers, as described below, and a further extension of the period during which the Company is obligated to file a registration statement including shares issued or to be issued in connection with the Moriah Agreement. The Moriah Agreement, as amended, has specific terms to which the Company must comply including (a) maintaining a lockbox account into which payments from related accounts receivable must be deposited, (b) periodic certifications as to borrowing base amounts equaling or exceeding net balances outstanding under the Line of Credit, and (c) a requirement that a registration statement with respect to shares held or to be issued to the lender be filed within thirty days of January 30, 2008. A delay in establishing the required lockbox account created a technical default under the Line of Credit agreement. Similarly, the production and subsequent discovery of defective displays resulted in an inadvertent overstatement of inventory during December 2007, January 2008 and early February 2008 that created a technical default under the agreement. Finally, the Company was not able to complete the registration of shares within the thirty day timeframe mandated in the amended agreement. Pursuant to the March Amendment, Moriah waived: (a) the lockbox account requirement through March 14, 2008, (b) compliance with the borrowing base requirement in so far as it related exclusively to the defective displays inadvertently included in inventory and (c) also extended the period for filing a registration statement for certain shares issued or to be issued to the lender until April 29, 2008. On April 2, 2008, the Company completed a private placement of its common stock with several institutional investors for gross proceeds of $1,650,000. The transaction involved the sale of 1,586,539 shares of common stock at $1.04 per share, or the 5-day average closing price of the Company’s common stock on the trading days immediately preceding the closing date. The Company also issued to the investors 793,273 warrants to buy our common stock at a price of $1.30 per share. Pursuant to the transaction, the Company is obligated to file a registration statement for the shares issued as well as shares underlying the warrants by May 17, 2008. 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information included herein as well as the information included in other reports and filings made with the SEC before investing in our common stock. The following factors, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, could cause our actual future results and financial condition to differ materially from those projected. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We have a history of losses since our inception and may incur losses for the foreseeable future. Our accumulated losses are $199 million as of December 31, 2007. We have not yet achieved profitability and we can give no assurances that we will achieve profitability within the foreseeable future as we fund operating and capital expenditures in areas such as including markets development, sales and marketing, manufacturing equipment, acquisitions, and research and development. We cannot assure investors that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. We may not be able to execute our business plan and may not generate cash from operations. As we have reported, our business is expected to experience significant revenue growth during the year ended December 31, 2008. We anticipate that our cash requirements to fund operating or investing cash requirements over the next twelve months may be greater than our current cash on hand and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. In the event that cash flow from operations is less than anticipated and we are unable to secure additional funding to cover our expenses, in order to preserve cash, we would be required to reduce expenditures and effect reductions in our corporate infrastructure, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our current level of operations. No assurance can be given that additional financing will be available, or if available, will be on acceptable terms. We may be subject to fines, sanctions, and/or penalties of an indeterminable nature as a result of potential violations of federal securities laws. In July 2006, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement with Stillwater LLC, which provided for the purchase and sale of a 6% senior secured convertible note in principal amount of up to $500,000 (the “Stillwater Note”) and a warrant to purchase 70% percent of the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Stillwater Note, at our sole discretion by delivery of a notice to Stillwater on December 14, 2006. We then filed a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the resale by Stillwater of up to 41,088,445 shares of our common stock. In July 2007, we amended the agreements with Stillwater. Amending the Stillwater agreements without first withdrawing the Registration Statement on Form S-3 may be inconsistent with Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and we may be subject to fines, sanctions and/or penalties of an indeterminable nature as a result of potential violations of federal securities laws. If we are assessed fines and penalties our business will be materially affected. The issuance of shares of common stock in connection with the conversion of the Notes may have not have been in compliance with certain state and federal securities laws and any damages that we may have to pay as a result of such issuance could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profits, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder our ability to obtain future financing. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern for the year ending December 31, 2008. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report dated April 9, 2008 that included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern without additional capital or financing becoming available. Our ability to continue as a going concern ultimately depends on our ability to generate a profit which is likely dependent upon our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies and, ultimately, to achieve profitable operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 16 RISKS RELATED TO MANUFACTURING The manufacture of OLED-on-silicon is new and OLED microdisplays have not been produced in significant quantities. If we are unable to produce our products in sufficient quantity, we will be unable to maintain and attract new customers. In addition, we cannot assure you that once we commence volume production we will attain yields at high throughput that will result in profitable gross margins or that we will not experience manufacturing problems which could result in delays in delivery of orders or product introductions. We are dependent on a single manufacturing line. We currently manufacture our products on a single manufacturing line. If we experience any significant disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facility or a serious failure of a critical piece of equipment, we may be unable to supply microdisplays to our customers. For this reason, some OEMs may also be reluctant to commit a broad line of products to our microdisplays without a second production facility in place. However, we try to maintain product inventory to fill the requirements under such circumstances. Interruptions in our manufacturing could be caused by manufacturing equipment problems, the introduction of new equipment into the manufacturing process or delays in the delivery of new manufacturing equipment. Lead-time for delivery of manufacturing equipment can be extensive. No assurance can be given that we will not lose potential sales or be unable to meet production orders due to production interruptions in our manufacturing line. In order to meet the requirements of certain OEMs for multiple manufacturing sites, we will have to expend capital to secure additional sites and may not be able to manage multiple sites successfully. We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to timely and reliably procure components from single-sourced suppliers. We maintain several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or because the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single-source material or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm operating results. We expect to depend on semiconductor contract manufacturers to supply our silicon integrated circuits and other suppliers of key components, materials and services. We do not manufacture the silicon integrated circuits on which we incorporate our OLED technology. Instead, we expect to provide the design layouts to semiconductor contract manufacturers who will manufacture the integrated circuits on silicon wafers. We also expect to depend on suppliers of a variety of other components and services, including circuit boards, graphic integrated circuits, passive components, materials and chemicals, and equipment support. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality silicon integrated circuits or other necessary components, materials or services on a timely basis could result in manufacturing delays, increased costs and ultimately in reduced or delayed sales or lost orders which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We rely on our license agreement with Eastman Kodak for the development of our products. We rely on our license agreement with Eastman Kodak for the development of our products, and the termination of this license, Eastman Kodak's licensing of its OLED technology to others for microdisplay applications, or the sublicensing by Eastman Kodak of our OLED technology to third parties, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our principal products under development utilize OLED technology that we license from Eastman Kodak. We rely upon Eastman Kodak to protect and enforce key patents held by Eastman Kodak, relating to OLED display technology. Eastman Kodak's patents expire at various times in the future. Our license with Eastman Kodak could terminate if we fail to perform any material term or covenant under the license agreement. Since our license from Eastman Kodak is non-exclusive, Eastman Kodak could also elect to become a competitor itself or to license OLED technology for microdisplay applications to others who have the potential to compete with us. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business. 17 We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secret protection, licensing agreements and other arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary technologies. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Patents may not be issued for our current patent applications, third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent any patent issued to us, unauthorized parties could obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, rights granted under patents issued to us may not afford us any competitive advantage, others may independently develop similar technology or design around our patents, our technology may be available to licensees of Eastman Kodak, and protection of our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain foreign countries. On April 30, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court, in KSR International Co. vs. Teleflex, Inc., mandated a more expansive and flexible approach towards a determination as to whether a patent is obvious and invalid, which may make it more difficult for patent holders to secure or maintain existing patents. Any future infringement or other claims or prosecutions related to our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Protection of intellectual property has historically been a large yearly expense for eMagin. We have not been in a financial position to properly protect all of our intellectual property, and may not be in a position to properly protect our position or stay ahead of competition in new research and the protecting of the resulting intellectual property. RISKS RELATED TO THE MICRODISPLAY INDUSTRY The commercial success of the microdisplay industry depends on the widespread market acceptance of microdisplay systems products. The market for microdisplays is emerging. Our success will depend on consumer acceptance of microdisplays as well as the success of the commercialization of the microdisplay market. As an OEM supplier, our customer's products must also be well accepted. At present, it is difficult to assess or predict with any assurance the potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities for our technology in this market. The viewfinder microdisplay market sector is well established with entrenched competitors with whom we must compete. The microdisplay systems business is intensely competitive. We do business in intensely competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, changes in market requirements and competition from both other suppliers and our potential OEM customers. Such markets are typically characterized by price erosion. This intense competition could result in pricing pressures, lower sales, reduced margins, and lower market share. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. We expect these factors to include the following: · our success in designing, manufacturing and delivering expected new products, including those implementing new technologies on a timely basis; · our ability to address the needs of our customers and the quality of our customer services; · the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use and pricing of our products; · successful expansion of our manufacturing capabilities; · our efficiency of production, and ability to manufacture and ship products on time; · the rate at which original equipment manufacturing customers incorporate our product solutions into their own products; · the market acceptance of our customers' products; and · product or technology introductions by our competitors. Our competitive position could be damaged if one or more potential OEM customers decide to manufacture their own microdisplays, using OLED or alternate technologies. In addition, our customers may be reluctant to rely on a relatively small company such as eMagin for a critical component. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. The display industry may be cyclical. Our business strategy is dependent on OEM manufacturers building and selling products that incorporate our OLED displays as components into those products. Industry-wide fluctuations and downturns in the demand for flat panel displays could cause significant harm to our business. The OLED microdisplay sector may experience overcapacity, if and when all of the facilities presently in the planning stage come on line, leading to a difficult market in which to sell our products. 18 Competing products may get to market sooner than ours. Our competitors are investing substantial resources in the development and manufacture of microdisplay systems using alternative technologies such as reflective liquid crystal displays (LCDs), LCD-on-Silicon ("LCOS") microdisplays, active matrix electroluminescence and scanning image systems, and transmissive active matrix LCDs. Our competitive position could be damaged if one or more of our competitors’ products get to the market sooner than our products. We cannot assure you that our product will get to market ahead of our competitors or that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition. The failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our competitors have many advantages over us. As the microdisplay market develops, we expect to experience intense competition from numerous domestic and foreign companies including well-established corporations possessing worldwide manufacturing and production facilities, greater name recognition, larger retail bases and significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than us, as well as from emerging companies attempting to obtain a share of the various markets in which our microdisplay products have the potential to compete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competition, and the failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are subject to lengthy OEM development periods. We plan to sell most of our microdisplays to OEMs who will incorporate them into products they sell. OEMs determine during their product development phase whether they will incorporate our products. The time elapsed between initial sampling of our products by OEMs, the custom design of our products to meet specific OEM product requirements, and the ultimate incorporation of our products into OEM consumer products is significant often with a duration of between one and three years. If our products fail to meet our OEM customers' cost, performance or technical requirements or if unexpected technical challenges arise in the integration of our products into OEM consumer products, our operating results could be significantly and adversely affected. Long delays in achieving customer qualification and incorporation of our products could adversely affect our business. Our products will likely experience rapidly declining unit prices. In the markets in which we expect to compete, prices of established products tend to decline significantly over time. In order to maintain our profit margins over the long term, we believe that we will need to continuously develop product enhancements and new technologies that will either slow price declines of our products or reduce the cost of producing and delivering our products. While we anticipate many opportunities to reduce production costs over time, there can be no assurance that these cost reduction plans will be successful, that we will have the resources to fund the expenditures necessary to implement certain cost-saving measures, or that our costs can be reduced as quickly as any reduction in unit prices. We may also attempt to offset the anticipated decrease in our average selling price by introducing new products, increasing our sales volumes or adjusting our product mix. If we fail to do so, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our success depends on attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified technical and consulting personnel. We must hire highly skilled technical personnel as employees and as independent contractors in order to develop our products. The competition for skilled technical employees is intense and we may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel. We must compete with companies that possess greater financial and other resources than we do, and that may be more attractive to potential employees and contractors. To be competitive, we may have to increase the compensation, bonuses, stock options and other fringe benefits offered to employees in order to attract and retain such personnel. The costs of attracting and retaining new personnel may have a materially adverse affect on our business and our operating results. In addition, difficulties in hiring and retaining technical personnel could delay the implementation of our business plan. Our success depends in a large part on the continuing service of key personnel. Changes in management could have an adverse effect on our business. We are dependent upon the active participation of several key management personnel and will also need to recruit additional management in order to expand according to our business plan. The failure to attract and retain additional management or personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance. The ineffectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. As of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective due to the presence of material weaknesses, as more fully described in Item 9A of this Form 10-K. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. 19 Our business depends on new products and technologies. The market for our products is characterized by rapid changes in product, design and manufacturing process technologies. Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop and manufacture new products and technologies to match the varying requirements of different customers in order to establish a competitive position and become profitable. Furthermore, we must adopt our products and processes to technological changes and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our failure to accomplish any of the above could harm our business and operating results. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Our business has primarily operated on the basis of short-term purchase orders. We are now receiving longer term purchase agreements, such as those which comprise our approximately $7.3 million backlog, and procurement contracts, but we cannot guarantee that we will continue to do so. Our current purchase agreements can be cancelled or revised without penalty, depending on the circumstances. We plan production on the basis of internally generated forecasts of demand, which makes it difficult to accurately forecast revenues. If we fail to accurately forecast operating results, our business may suffer and the value of your investment in eMagin may decline. Our business strategy may fail if we cannot continue to form strategic relationships with companies that manufacture and use products that could incorporate our OLED-on-silicon technology. Our prospects will be significantly affected by our ability to develop strategic alliances with OEMs for incorporation of our OLED-on-silicon technology into their products. While we intend to continue to establish strategic relationships with manufacturers of electronic consumer products, personal computers, chipmakers, lens makers, equipment makers, material suppliers and/or systems assemblers, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to establish and maintain strategic relationships on commercially acceptable terms, or that the alliances we do enter in to will realize their objectives. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business depends to some extent on international transactions. We purchase needed materials from companies located abroad and may be adversely affected by political and currency risk, as well as the additional costs of doing business with foreign entities. Some customers in other countries have longer receivable periods or warranty periods. In addition, many of the foreign OEMs that are the most likely long-term purchasers of our microdisplays expose us to additional political and currency risk. We may find it necessary to locate manufacturing facilities abroad to be closer to our customers which could expose us to various risks, including management of a multi-national organization, the complexities of complying with foreign laws and customs, political instability and the complexities of taxation in multiple jurisdictions. Our business may expose us to product liability claims. Our business may expose us to potential product liability claims. Although no such claims have been brought against us to date, and to our knowledge no such claim is threatened or likely, we may face liability to product users for damages resulting from the faulty design or manufacture of our products. While we plan to maintain product liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that product liability claims will not exceed coverage limits, fall outside the scope of such coverage, or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates, if at all. Our business is subject to environmental regulations and possible liability arising from potential employee claims of exposure to harmful substances used in the development and manufacture of our products. We are subject to various governmental regulations related to toxic, volatile, experimental and other hazardous chemicals used in our design and manufacturing process. Our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of fines or in the suspension or cessation of our operations. Compliance with these regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. We develop, evaluate and utilize new chemical compounds in the manufacture of our products. While we attempt to ensure that our employees are protected from exposure to hazardous materials, we cannot assure you that potentially harmful exposure will not occur or that we will not be liable to employees as a result. 20 RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK The substantial number of shares that are or will be eligible for sale could cause our common stock price to decline even if eMagin is successful. Sales of significant amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could materially affect the market price of our common stock. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 14, 2008, we have outstanding (i) options to purchase 904,323 shares and (ii) warrants to purchase 9,090,509 shares of common stock. We have a staggered board of directors and other anti-takeover provisions, which could inhibit potential investors or delay or prevent a change of control that may favor you. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes and our Board members are elected for terms that are staggered. This could discourage the efforts by others to obtain control of eMagin. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could, together or separately, discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control. In particular, our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock (less any outstanding shares of preferred stock) with rights and privileges that might be senior to our common stock, without the consent of the holders of the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 