Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our loan portfolio includes increased risk due to changes in category composition of the portfolio. The percentage of loans secured by first mortgages on one-to four-family residential properties has decreased as the portfolio has shifted into higher-yielding loan categories that typically involve a higher degree of risk. From September 30, 2003, through September 30, 2007, our total loans have grown by 59.9%. During this period the percentage of one- to four-family loans in the loan portfolio has decreased to 17.4% from 26.2%. Our commercial real estate loans, construction and land development loans, multi-family loans, land loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans accounted for approximately 82.6% of our total loan portfolio as of September 30, 2007. We consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, and therefore, may cause higher future loan losses. Accordingly, as a result of the inherent risks associated with these types of loans, and the unseasoned nature of a portion of these loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses. An increase in our provision for loan losses would reduce our profits. For further information concerning the risks associated with multi-family, and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, and consumer loans, see "Item 1. Business - Lending Activities." We have increased our construction and land development lending which presents greater risk than one- to four-family and consumer lending. Construction lending is generally considered to involve a higher level of risk as compared to single-family residential or consumer lending, as a result of the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, and the effects of general economic conditions on developers and builders. Moreover, a construction loan can involve additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. The nature of these loans is such that they are generally more difficult to evaluate and monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Construction loans on land under development or held for future construction also poses additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. 36 Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently decreased after increasing for several years. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25% during the period from June 30, 2004 to June 20, 2006. The U.S. Federal Reserve then decreased its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points on September 18, 2007. A sustained falling interest rate environment would negatively impact margins as the Bank has more interest earning assets that would adjust downward than interest-bearing liabilities that would adjust downward. We manage our assets and liabilities in order to achieve long-term profitability while limiting our exposure to the fluctuation of interest rates. We anticipate periodic imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationship of various interest rates to each other. At any reporting period, we may have earning assets which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. The fluctuation of market interest rates can materially affect our net interest spread, interest margin, loan originations, deposit volumes and overall profitability. In addition, we may have valuation risk in measuring our interest rate risk position. The valuation risk is attributable to calculation methods (modeling risks) and assumptions used in the model, including loan prepayments and forward interest rates. For further information on our interest rate risks, see the discussion included in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" of this Form 10-K. We are required to maintain a higher capital ratio because of our level of commercial real estate loans. The FDIC, along with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, has issued final guidance for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and its construction loan portfolio has increase 50% or more during the prior 36 months. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and increasing capital requirements. Based on the Bank's projected commercial real estate lending levels, it is considered to have a concentration in commercial real estate lending and must implement the practices outlined in the final guidance, including maintaining a higher capital ratio. Our commercial business lending activities involves greater risk than other types of lending. Our commercial business lending has increased since 2003 and we intend to continue to offer commercial business loans to small and medium sized businesses. Our ability to originate commercial business loans is determined by the demand for these loans and our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial lending personnel. Because payments on commercial business loans generally depend on the successful operation of the business involved, repayment of commercial business loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy than other types of lending. Although commercial business loans often have equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or 37 other business assets as collateral, the sale of the collateral in the event the borrower does not repay the loan is often not sufficient to repay the loan because the collateral may be uncollectible and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in these efforts. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB of Seattle or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover future loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review several factors including our loan loss and delinquency experience, underwriting practices, and economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in the need for greater additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.92% of total loans and 321.95% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2007. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Washington. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Washington and the specific local markets in which we operate. Adverse economic conditions unique to the Washington markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact our state and local markets and, in turn, also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Of particular concern are real estate values, which may decline. If Washington were to experience significant declines in real estate values, this decline may inhibit our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence 38 or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve the cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. For further information, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Company." We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. 39 We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- Not applicable. 