Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. We need to successfully introduce new products and services to grow our businesses. Our business is dependent upon the introduction of new products and services, which is subject to a number of risks. The process of developing new, and enhancing existing, products and services is complex, costly and uncertain. Providing products and services that are attractive and useful to subscribers and consumers is in part subject to unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences and competing products and services. Any failure by us to timely respond to or accurately anticipate consumers’ changing needs, emerging technological trends or important changes in the market or competition for products and services we plan to introduce could significantly harm our current market share or result in the loss of market opportunities. In addition, we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect consumer demand for our products and services, which may result in no return or a loss on our investments. Furthermore, new products and services may be subject to legal challenge. Responding to these potential claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop distributing or selling, or to redesign our products or services, or to pay damages. If we do not successfully introduce new products and services, our operating results may be materially harmed. The mobile entertainment market is evolving rapidly and highly competitive. The market for mobile entertainment services, including our ring back tones, music on demand and video on demand solutions, is highly competitive and evolving rapidly, particularly with the growth in the use of smartphones. Increased use of smartphones has resulted in a proliferation of applications and services that compete with our SaaS services and, in many cases, are not dependent upon our carrier customers to make them available to subscribers. To maintain or enhance our competitive position, we may need to develop new SaaS services that enable our carrier customers to compete with the broad range of applications and other services available in the market. We face competition, and may face future competition, from major media companies, Internet portal companies, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play wireless entertainment publishers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. Furthermore, while most of our carrier customers do not offer internally developed 9 Table of Contents services that compete with ours, if our carrier customers begin developing these services internally, we could be forced to lower our prices or increase the amount of service we provide in order to maintain our business with those carrier customers. Increased competition has in the past resulted in pricing pressure, forcing us to lower the selling price of our services. If we are unable to develop or provide services that compete effectively in the mobile entertainment market, our operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. Contracts with our carrier customers subject us to significant risks that could negatively impact our revenue or otherwise harm our operating results. We derive a material portion of our revenue from our SaaS offerings we provide to carriers. Many of our SaaS contracts with carriers provide for revenue sharing arrangements, but we have little control over the pricing decisions of our carrier customers. Furthermore, most of these contracts do not provide for guaranteed minimum payments or usage levels. Because most of our carrier customer contracts are nonexclusive, it is possible that our mobile carrier customers could purchase similar services from third parties and cease to use our services in the future. As a result, our revenue derived under these agreements could be substantially reduced depending on the pricing and usage decisions of our carrier customers. In addition, some of our SaaS contracts require us to incur significant set-up costs prior to the launch of services with a carrier customer. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we reduced our forecast for profitability associated with certain carrier customer contracts for which the total costs exceeded the total revenue we expect to recognize from these contracts, and as a result, we recorded impairment of deferred costs totaling $20.0 million. We cannot provide assurance that we will not record additional impairments or other charges in future periods related to our carrier customer contracts, which would negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, none of our SaaS contracts with carriers obligates our carrier customers to market or distribute any of our SaaS offerings. Despite the lack of marketing commitments, revenue related to our SaaS offerings is, to a large extent, dependent upon the marketing and promotion activities of our carrier customers. In addition, many of our carrier contracts are short term and allow for early termination by the carrier with or without cause. These contracts are therefore subject to renegotiation of pricing or other key terms that could be adverse to our interests and leave us vulnerable to non-renewal by the carriers. The loss of carrier customers, a reduction in marketing or promotion of our SaaS offerings, or the termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of contract terms that are less favorable to us would likely result in the loss of future revenues from our SaaS offerings. Finally, nearly all of our carrier contracts obligate us to indemnify the carrier customer for certain liabilities and losses incurred by them, including liabilities resulting from third party claims for damages that arise out of the use of our technology. These indemnification terms provide us with certain procedural safeguards, including the right to control the defense of the indemnified party. Pursuant to these indemnifications obligations, we have agreed to control the defense on behalf of three of our carrier customers related to pending patent infringement proceedings, and we are vigorously defending them. These pending proceedings or future claims against which we may be obligated to defend our carrier customers could result in payments that could materially harm our business or our consolidated financial statements. A majority of the revenue that we generate in our Core Products business segment is dependent upon our relationship with a few customers, including SK Telecom and Verizon; any deterioration of these relationships could materially harm our business. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales of our mobile entertainment services to a few of our mobile carrier customers, including SK Telecom, a leading wireless carrier in South Korea. In the near term, we expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our total revenue from these customers, particularly SK Telecom and Verizon. If these customers fail to market or distribute our services or terminate their business contracts with us, or if our relationships with these customers deteriorate in any significant way, we may be unable to replace the affected business arrangements with acceptable alternatives. Our relationship with SK Telecom may also be affected by the general state of the economy of South Korea. Failure to maintain our relationships with these customers could have a material negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Our businesses face substantial competitive and other challenges that may prevent us from being successful in, and negatively impact future growth in, those businesses. Many of our current and potential competitors in our businesses have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater resources than we do. To effectively compete in the markets for our products and services, we may experience the following consequences, any of which would adversely affect our operating results and the trading price of our stock: • reduced prices or margins, • loss of current and potential customers, or partners and potential partners who provide content we distribute to our customers, • changes to our products, services, technologies, licenses or business practices or strategies, • lengthened sales cycles, 10 Table of Contents • industry-wide changes in content distribution to customers or in trends in consumer consumption of digital media products and services, • pressure to prematurely release products or product enhancements, or • degradation in our stature or reputation in the market. In addition, we face the following competitive risks relating to our businesses: Our SuperPass subscription service faces competition from a broad variety of entertainment sources, including traditional media outlets and emerging Internet media sources. We expect this competition to continue to be intense as the market and business models for Internet video content mature and more competitors enter these new markets. Competing services may be able to obtain better or more favorable access to compelling video content than us, may develop better offerings than us and may be able to leverage other assets or technologies to promote or distribute their offerings successfully. Our RealPlayer software services compete with alternative streaming media playback technologies and audio and video formats including Microsoft Windows Media Player and Adobe Flash and their related file formats, each of which has obtained very broad market penetration. In addition, our overall ability to sell subscription services depends in part on the use of our formats on the Internet, and declines in the use of our formats have negatively affected, and are expected to continue to negatively affect, our subscription revenue and increase costs of obtaining new subscribers. If we are unable to compete successfully, including through the introduction of compelling new products and services, our SuperPass and RealPlayer businesses could continue to decline. Our GameHouse, Zylom and Atrativa branded services compete with other online aggregators and distributors of online, downloadable and social casual PC games. Some of these competitors have high volume distribution channels and greater financial resources than we do. Our Games business also competes with many other smaller companies that may be able to adjust to market conditions, including responding effectively to the growing popularity of casual games on social networks, faster than us. We also face increasing price competition in the casual games market, and some of our competitors may be able to lower prices more aggressively than us. We expect competition to intensify in this market from these and other competitors, and no assurance can be made that we will be able to achieve growth in our revenue. Our games development studios compete primarily with other developers of online, downloadable, mobile and social casual PC games and must continue to develop popular and high-quality game titles. Our Games business must also continue to execute on opportunities to expand the play of our games on a variety of non-PC platforms, including social networks, in order to maintain our competitive position and to grow the business. We may not be successful in maintaining and growing our distribution of digital media products. Maintaining and growing the distribution of digital media products through our websites and our other distribution channels is important to our future prospects, including future growth through the introduction of new products and services distributed through these channels. We cannot predict whether consumers will continue to download and use our digital media products consistent with past usage, which may reduce our ability to generate revenue from those products as well as result in lower than expected adoption of newly introduced products and services. Our inability to maintain continued high volume distribution of our digital media products could also hold back the growth and development of related revenue streams from these market segments, including the distribution of third-party products and sales of our subscription services, and therefore could harm our business and our prospects. Our revenue from the distribution of third-party products will also be negatively impacted if those products are not widely downloaded by consumers, including due to the relative market saturation of such products. In addition, our revenue from the distribution of third party products is currently significantly dependent on a single customer contract. If that contract is not renewed or terminated and cannot be replaced by another similar customer contract, our financial results would be harmed. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile, ranging from $6.92 to $17.24 per share during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2011. These prices reflect the one-for-four reverse stock split of the Company’s common stock that was effective at the close of business on August 30, 2011. As a result of the rapidly changing markets in which we compete, our operating results may fluctuate from period-to-period, which may continue to contribute to the volatility of our stock price. In past periods, our operating results have been affected by personnel reductions and related charges, charges relating to losses on excess office facilities, and impairment charges for certain of our equity investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets. Our operating results may be adversely affected by similar or other charges or events in future periods, including, but not limited to: • impairments of long-lived assets, • integrating and operating newly acquired businesses and assets, and • the general difficulty in forecasting our operating results and metrics, which could result in actual results that differ significantly from expected results. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our product and service investment decisions (for example, research and development and sales and marketing efforts) are based on predictions regarding business and the markets in which we compete. Fluctuations in our operating results, particularly when experienced beyond what we expected, could cause the trading price of our stock to continue to fluctuate. Continued loss of revenue from some of our subscription services may harm our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by the loss of subscription revenue. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive content generally or as compared with competitive service offerings, or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. Revenue from our SuperPass subscription service has declined in recent periods due in part to our focus on other products and services we offer, and we expect this trend to continue. For the subscription services we offer, we must continue to obtain compelling digital media content for our video and games services in order to maintain and increase usage and overall customer satisfaction for these products. Our operating results may be negatively impacted if we cannot obtain content for our subscription services on commercially reasonable terms. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We are subject to regulations and laws specific to the marketing, sale and delivery of goods and services over the Internet. These laws and regulations cover taxation, user privacy, data collection and protection, copyrights, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, consumer protections, broadband Internet access and content restrictions. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as privacy, taxation and consumer protection apply or will be enforced with respect to the products and services we sell through the Internet. Moreover, as Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation and/or enforcement efforts by federal, state and foreign agencies becomes more likely. The adoption of any laws or regulations or the imposition of other legal requirements that adversely affect our ability to market, sell, and deliver our products and services could decrease demand for our service offerings, resulting in lower revenue. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also require us to change our business practices, raise compliance costs or other costs of doing business and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our operating results. As a consumer-facing business, we receive complaints from our customers regarding our consumer marketing efforts and our customer service practices. Some of these customers may also complain to government agencies, and from time to time, those agencies have made inquiries to us about these practices. In March and September 2011, the Consumer Protection Division of the Washington State Office of the Attorney General (Washington AG) issued civil investigative demands to us requesting information and documents relating to certain of our consumer marketing practices during the period from 2005 to 2011. We are cooperating and are in discussions with the Washington AG regarding the investigation, and have begun to respond to the Washington AG’s requests. The Washington AG has not initiated any enforcement action against us. We believe our practices have been consistent with industry standards and have not violated any laws, but cannot predict the outcome of the investigation at this time, including whether the investigation will result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief that would reduce our cash flows or harm our business or consolidated financial statements. Uncertainty and adverse conditions in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weaknesses in the national and global economy has resulted in recent years in a decline in overall consumer and corporate spending, declines in consumer and corporate access to credit, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, declines in the value of assets and increased liquidity risks, all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide digital entertainment services to consumers directly and indirectly through our carrier customers. Consumers may consider the purchase of our products and services to be a discretionary expenditure. As a result, consumers considering whether to purchase our products or services may be influenced by macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending such as unemployment, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets and access to credit when making a determination whether to commence, continue, or stop subscribing to or otherwise purchasing our products and services. In addition, businesses may reduce their advertising spending during adverse macroeconomic conditions, which would negatively impact the revenue we generate through sales of advertising on our websites and other properties. We have recorded impairments to our assets in 2008 and 2009 due in part to weakness in the global economy, and if there is a sustained period of significant weakness or uncertainty in the global economy, we may need to record additional impairments to our assets in future periods. If any of these risks are realized, we may experience a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our restructuring efforts may not yield the anticipated benefits to our shareholders. We have been restructuring the operating and overhead costs of, and taking other measures to simplify, our business and operations. We have never before pursued initiatives to this extent and there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Our business and operations may be harmed to the extent there is customer or employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our product and service offerings and strategy for our businesses. Our restructuring activities have included implementing cost-cutting initiatives, which could materially impact our ability to compete in future periods. If we have not effectively re-aligned the cost structure of our remaining businesses or otherwise do not execute effectively on our strategic plans, our stock price may be adversely affected, and we and our shareholders will not realize the anticipated financial, operational and other benefits from such initiatives. The restructuring of Rhapsody may not yield the anticipated benefits to us or to Rhapsody. On March 31, 2010, we completed the restructuring transactions of our digital audio music service joint venture, Rhapsody America LLC (Rhapsody). As a result of the restructuring, we no longer have operational control over Rhapsody and Rhapsody’s operating performance is no longer consolidated with our condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe the restructuring will provide Rhapsody with the financial, intellectual property and other key assets, and the operational flexibility to compete more effectively in the digital music market. Rhapsody’s inability to operate and compete effectively as an independent company could adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially impact our reported net income (loss) in future periods. In addition, Rhapsody has generated losses since its inception, and the new structure may not alter this trend. If Rhapsody continues to incur losses, or if it otherwise experiences a significant decline in its business, we may incur a loss on our investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the current proportion of the outstanding equity of Rhapsody that we hold, we anticipate that we will need to receive Rhapsody’s unaudited quarterly financial statements in order to timely prepare our quarterly consolidated financial statements and also to report certain of Rhapsody’s financial results, as may be required, in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, we may be required to include Rhapsody’s annual audited financial statements in our annual report on Form 10-K in future periods. As we no longer exert operational control over Rhapsody, we cannot guarantee that Rhapsody will deliver its financial statements to us in a timely manner, or at all, or that the unaudited financial statement information provided by Rhapsody will not contain inaccuracies that are material to our reported results. Any failure to timely obtain Rhapsody’s quarterly financial statements or to include its audited financial statements in our future annual reports on Form 10-K, if required, could cause our reports to be filed in an untimely manner, which would preclude us from utilizing certain registration statements and could negatively impact our stock price. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel, but may be unable to attract and retain them, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees. In January 2010, Rob Glaser, our founder and the only Chief Executive Officer in our history, resigned as Chief Executive Officer, but remained the Chairman of our Board of Directors. In March 2011, Robert Kimball resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Michael Lunsford was appointed as Interim Chief Executive Officer, and since November, 2011, Thomas Nielsen has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Accordingly, we are experiencing our third transition at the Chief Executive Officer level in less than two years. We cannot provide assurance that we will effectively manage these transitions, which may impact our ability to retain our remaining key executive officers and which could harm our business and operations to the extent there is customer or employee uncertainty arising from these transitions. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled management, technical and sales personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand and competition for such qualified personnel in our industry, particularly engineering talent, is intense, and we may incur significant costs to attract or retain them. Our ability to attract and retain personnel may also be made more difficult by the uncertainty created by the recent changes at our Chief Executive Officer position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the key personnel necessary to sustain our business or support future growth. Acquisitions and divestitures involve costs and risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from these transactions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired and sold technologies and businesses in the past and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. The failure to adequately manage transaction costs and address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by acquisitions and divestitures of technology and businesses could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the benefits of these transactions. Transaction-related costs and financial risks related to completed and potential future purchase or sale transactions may harm our financial position, reported operating results, or stock price. Previous acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased technology, amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets and the incurrence of charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are reflected in our operating expenses. New acquisitions and any potential additional future impairment of the value of purchased assets, including goodwill, could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. 13 Table of Contents Purchase and sale transactions also involve operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from a transaction. These operational risks include: • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems, and/or personnel of the acquired company; • retaining key management or employees of the acquired company; • entrance into unfamiliar markets, industry segments, or types of businesses; • operating, managing and integrating acquired businesses in remote locations or in countries in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management time and other resources from existing operations; • impairment of relationships with employees, affiliates, advertisers or content providers of our business or acquired business; and • assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights or leverage our technology assets, and may face risks associated with third-party claims relating to our intellectual property. Our ability to compete across our businesses partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not assure our ownership rights in our intellectual property, protect or enhance the competitive position of our products and services or effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. We also routinely receive challenges to our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property that we are using in our business activities in China. Disputes regarding the validity and scope of patents or the ownership of technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution, and online businesses are common and likely to arise in the future. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our patents and other intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or redesign our product features and services. Any such dispute would likely be costly and distract our management, and the outcome of any such dispute could fail to improve our business prospects or otherwise harm our business. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our technology may infringe the third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging contract breaches, infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. These claims, even if not meritorious, could force us to spend significant financial and managerial resources. Given the broad distribution of some of our consumer products, any individual claim related to those products could give rise to liabilities that may be material to us. Currently, we are investigating or litigating a variety of such pending claims, some of which are described in “Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies” to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial monetary liability and/or be required to change its business practices. In addition, we recently entered into a definitive agreement with Intel Corporation pursuant to which we will sell substantially all of our patent assets. We believe that our patent portfolio may have in the past discouraged third parties from bringing infringement or other claims against us relating to the use of our technologies in our business. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether the sale of these patent assets to Intel will result in additional infringement or other claims against us from third parties. Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks fail, become unavailable, unsecured or perform poorly so that current or potential users do not have adequate access to our products, services and websites. Our ability to provide our products and services to our customers and operate our business depends on the continued operation and security of our information systems and networks. A significant or repeated reduction in the performance, reliability, security or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could harm our ability to conduct our business, and harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain users, customers, advertisers and content providers. We have on occasion experienced system errors and failures that caused interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time. Problems with our systems and networks could result from our failure to adequately maintain and enhance these systems and networks, natural disasters and similar events, power failures, HVAC failures, intentional actions to disrupt our systems and networks and many other causes. The vulnerability of a large portion of our computer and communications infrastructure is enhanced because much of it is 14 Table of Contents located at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake, flood, and volcanic events. Many of our services do not currently have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully managing our international operations. Our international operations involve risks inherent in doing business globally, including difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language, and cultural differences, local economic conditions, different or conflicting laws and regulations, taxes, and exchange rate fluctuations. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which each subsidiary operates. We translate our subsidiaries’ revenues into U.S. dollars in our financial statements, and continued volatility in foreign exchange rates, particularly if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the euro or the Korean won, may result in lower reported revenue or net assets in future periods. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. If we do not effectively manage any of the risks inherent in running our international businesses, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with our data collection and data security capabilities. Many of our products are interactive Internet applications that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. For example, to provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information, including personally identifiable information, to our servers. In addition, we sell many of our products and services through online sales transactions directly with consumers, through which we collect and store credit card information. In connection with our direct sales to consumers, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents a risk to our revenue and potentially disrupts service to our consumers. While we take measures to protect our consumer data, we have experienced unauthorized access to our consumer data in the past, and it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent future improper access or disclosure of credit card information or personally identifiable information. We also are not yet fully compliant with the Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance standard for data security in connection with our use of credit card services for payment. We have an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. A security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) or any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy or existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could harm our reputation, impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation, and require us to expend significant resources to mitigate the breach of security, comply with breach notification laws or address related matters. In addition, if we fail to satisfy timely the PCI compliance standards we may be subject to substantial monetary penalties and we could lose the ability to accept credit card payments for transactions with our customers. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business or our consolidated financial statements. Changes in regulations applicable to the Internet and e-commerce that increase the taxes on the services we provide could materially harm our business and operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing taxation by state, local or foreign tax authorities becomes more likely. For example, taxation of electronically delivered products and services or other charges imposed by government agencies may also be imposed. We believe we collect transactional taxes and are compliant and current in all jurisdictions where we believe we have a collection obligation for transaction taxes. Any regulation imposing greater taxes or other fees for products and services could result in a decline in the sale of products and services and the viability of those products and services, harming our business and operating results. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign tax authorities that we should collect and remit sales or other taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial liability for past sales. In those countries where we have taxable presence, we collect value added tax, or VAT, on sales of “electronically supplied services” provided to European Union residents. The collection and remittance of VAT subjects us to additional currency fluctuation risks. We may be subject to additional income tax assessments. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, income taxes payable, and net deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical financial statements. An audit or litigation can result in significant additional income taxes payable in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our Chairman of the Board beneficially owns approximately 38% of our stock, which gives him significant control over certain major decisions on which our shareholders may vote or may discourage an acquisition of us. Robert Glaser, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns approximately 38% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Glaser and his affiliates will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. At our 2010 annual meeting of shareholders, Mr. Glaser withheld votes of his shares of our common stock with respect to the election of four of our directors, including three of our incumbent directors and Robert Kimball, our former President and Chief Executive Officer. Although these four directors were re-elected, none of them received approval of a majority of the votes cast. The stock ownership of Mr. Glaser and his affiliates may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of RealNetworks, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Washington law could discourage our acquisition by a third-party. Our articles of incorporation provide for a strategic transaction committee of the board of directors. Without the prior approval of this committee, and subject to certain limited exceptions, the board of directors does not have the authority to: • adopt a plan of merger; • authorize the sale, lease, exchange or mortgage of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of our assets prior to the transaction or on which our long-term business strategy is substantially dependent; • authorize our voluntary dissolution; or • take any action that has the effect of any of the above. In addition, Mr. Glaser has special rights under our articles of incorporation to appoint or remove members of the strategic transaction committee at his discretion that could make it more difficult for RealNetworks to be sold or to complete another change of control transaction without Mr. Glaser’s consent. RealNetworks has also entered into an agreement providing Mr. Glaser with certain contractual rights relating to the enforcement of our charter documents and Mr. Glaser’s roles and authority within RealNetworks. These rights and his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors, together with Mr. Glaser’s significant beneficial ownership, create unique potential for concentrated influence of Mr. Glaser over potentially material transactions involving RealNetworks and decisions regarding the future strategy and leadership of RealNetworks. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which was amended and restated in December 2008, which provides that shares of our common stock have associated preferred stock purchase rights. The exercise of these rights would make the acquisition of RealNetworks by a third-party more expensive to that party and has the effect of discouraging third parties from acquiring RealNetworks without the approval of our board of directors, which has the power to redeem these rights and prevent their exercise. Washington law imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The foregoing provisions of our charter documents, shareholder rights plan, our agreement with Mr. Glaser, and Washington law, as well as our charter provisions that provide for a classified board of directors and the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions may therefore have the effect of limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 