Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed to be immaterial by management, also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The Company and the Bank are required to comply with the terms of separate memoranda of understanding issued by their respective regulators and lack of compliance could result in additional regulatory actions. In December 2009, the FDIC and the Division determined that the Bank required additional supervisory attention and and on December 29, 2009 entered into the Bank MOU. Under the terms of the Bank MOU, the Bank, without the prior written approval, or nonobjection, of the FDIC and/or the DFI, may not: * appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers; * pay cash dividends to its holding company, Timberland Bancorp, Inc.; or * engage in any transactions that would materially change the balance sheet composition including growth in total assets of five percent or more or significant changes in funding sources, such as by increasing brokered deposits. Other material provisions of the Bank MOU require the Bank to: 39 * maintain Tier 1 Capital of not less than 10.0% of the Bank's adjusted total assets pursuant to Part 325 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations, and maintain capital ratios above "well capitalized" thresholds as defined under Section 325.103 of the FDIC Rules and Regulations; * maintain a fully funded allowance for loan and lease losses, the adequacy of which shall be deemed to be satisfactory to the FDIC and the DFI; * formulate and implement a written profit plan acceptable to the FDIC and the DFI; * eliminate from its books all assets classified "Loss" that have not been previously collected or charged-off; * reduce the dollar volume by 50% the assets classified "Substandard" and "Doubtful" at April 30, 2009; * develop a written plan for reducing the aggregate amount of its acquisition, development and construction loans; and * revise, adopt and fully implement a written liquidity and funds management policy. In addition on February 1, 2010, the FRB determined that the Company required additional supervisory attention and entered into the Company MOU. Under the terms of the Company MOU, the Company, without prior written approval, or non-objection, of the FRB, may not: * appoint any new director or senior executive officer or change the responsibilities of any current senior executive officers; * receive dividends or any other form of payment or distribution representing a reduction in capital from the Bank; * declare or pay any dividends, or make any other capital distributions; incur, renew, increase, or guarantee any debt; * issue any trust preferred securities; or * purchase or redeem any of its stock. The Bank MOU and the Company MOU will remain in effect until stayed, modified, terminated or suspended by the FDIC and the Division or FRB, as the case may be. If either the Company or the Bank is found not in compliance with their respective MOU, it could be subject to various remedies, including among others, the power to enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict growth, to remove officers and / or directors, and to assess civil monetary penalties. Management of the Company and the Bank have been taking action and implementing programs to comply with the requirements of the Company MOU and the Bank MOU, respectively. Compliance will be determined by the FDIC, Division and FRB. Any of these regulators may determine in their sole discretion that the issues raised by the Company MOU or the Bank MOU have not been addressed satisfactorily, or that any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of further regulatory enforcement actions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or further limitations on the Company's business and negatively affect its ability to implement its business plan, pay dividends on its common stock or the value of its common stock, as well as its financial condition and result of operations. As of September 30, 2010, the FRB has denied the Company's requests to pay dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock (issued under TARP) for the payments due May 15, 2010 and August 15, 2010. There can be no assurance that our regulators will approve such payments or dividends in the future. The Company may not declare or pay dividends on its common stock or, with certain exceptions, repurchase common stock without first having paid all cumulative preferred dividends that are due. If dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are not paid for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the Treasury has the right to appoint two members to the Board of Directors of the Company. See " Risks specific to our participation in TARP." Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"). This new law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, 40 investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on the Company. For example, one year after the date of enactment a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company's interest expense and deposit balances. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A continuing decline in the economies of our local market areas of Grays Harbor, Pierce, Thurston, King, Kitsap and Lewis counties in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Washington has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and has experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: * loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; * collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; * the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and * the price of our common stock may decrease. Our real estate construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the completed project. We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At September 30, 2010, construction and land development loans totaled $69.3 million, or 12.4% of our total loan portfolio, of which $39.3 million were for residential real estate projects. Approximately $30.9 million of our residential construction loans were made to finance the construction of owner-occupied homes and are structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. Land development loans, which are loans made with land as security, totaled $6.4 million, or 1.2%, of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2010. In general, construction and land development lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property's value both before and at completion of the project as well as the estimated cost of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have historically 41 been. Construction loans and land development loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At September 30, 2010, $4.8 million of our construction portfolio was comprised of speculative one- to four-family construction loans. Approximately $7.6 million, or 11.0%, of our total real estate construction and land development loans were non-performing at September 30, 2010. A material increase in our non-performing construction and loan development loans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy includes the expansion of commercial real estate lending. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market of southwest Washington, a further downturn in the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss. At September 30, 2010, we had $208.0 million commercial real estate mortgage loans, representing 37.2% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger as a percentage of the total principal outstanding than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of Thrift Supervision have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as 42 opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because our balance in commercial real estate loans at September 30, 2010 represents more than 300% of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us and an adjustment to our growth strategies. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At September 30, 2010, we had $18.0 million or 3.2% of total loans in commercial loans. Commercial lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property. At September 30, 2010, $159.4 million, or 28.5% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sales prices coupled with the current recession and the associated increases in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity, and damage our financial condition and business operations. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio exposes us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have reduced equity or no equity because either we originated upon purchase a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio, have originated a home equity loan with a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 90%, or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our provision for loan losses has increased substantially in the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 43 For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $10.6 million and $10.7 million, respectively. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $13.5 million and $4.4 million for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During these last two fiscal years, we experienced higher loan delinquencies and credit losses. Our non-performing loans and assets have historically reflected unique operating difficulties for individual borrowers rather than weakness in the overall economy of the Pacific Northwest; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and non-performing loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market have been the primary causes of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for construction and land development loans, which represent 30.6% of our non-performing assets at September 30, 2010. Further, our portfolio is concentrated in construction and land loans and commercial and commercial real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, and until general economic conditions improve, we expect that we will continue to experience significantly higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have continuing losses. We reported net losses of $(2.3 million) and $(242,000) for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These losses primarily resulted from our high level of non-performing assets and the resultant increased provision for loan losses and OREO related expenses and write-downs. We may continue to suffer further losses which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and require us to raise additional capital. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: * the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; * changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; * the duration of the loan; * the credit history of a particular borrower; and * changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: * our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management's expectations of future events; and * our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of impaired loans and their underlying collateral and cash flows. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, 44 including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and the loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was $11.3 million or 2.1% of gross loans held for investment and 45.3% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2010. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value ("NBV") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated estimated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect or if the property declines in value after foreclosure, the fair value of our OREO may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our OREO could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in additional losses. During the year ended September 30, 2010, we recognized a $2.2 million other than temporary impairment ("OTTI") charge on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment. Management concluded that the decline of the estimated fair value below the cost of these securities was other than temporary and recorded a credit loss through non-interest income. At September 30, 2010 our remaining private label mortgage backed securities portfolio totaled $5.0 million We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, default rates on residential mortgage securities, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in our investment securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of our private label mortgage backed securities or other investment securities are other than temporarily impaired, our results of operations could be adversely affected. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by the FHLMC or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income. 45 The sale of residential mortgage loans to the FHLMC provides a significant portion of our non-interest income. Any future changes in their program, our eligibility to participate in such program, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of the FHLMC could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations if we could not find other purchasers. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with our loan sale activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations. Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of adjustable rate loans. A substantial majority of our real estate secured loans held are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of defaults that may adversely affect our profitability. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across 46 all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution's assessment base. Our FDIC deposit insurance expense for the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 was $1.7 million and $778,000, respectively. Additionally, in November 2009, the FDIC announced that financial institutions are required to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. In December 2009, we prepaid $4.4 million, which will be expensed over this three-year period. This prepayment did not immediately impact our earnings as the payment will be expensed over time, however, any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will adversely affect our earnings. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general - such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, we may have to raise additional capital on terms that may be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by the FDIC, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action. See " The Company and the Bank are required to comply with the terms of separate memoranda of understanding issued by their respective regulators and lack of compliance could result in additional regulatory actions." 47 We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family home loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the Washington Department of Financial Institutions. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings. We performed our test for goodwill impairment for fiscal year 2010, but no impairment was identified. Our assessment of the fair value of goodwill is based on an evaluation of current purchase transactions, discounted cash flows from forecasted earnings, our current market capitalization, and a valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment. If our judgment was incorrect and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill resulting in a charge to earnings, which would adversely affect our results of operations, perhaps materially; however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stock may become impaired. At September 30, 2010, we owned $5.7 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per accounting guidance for the impairment of long lived assets. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB's private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. On October 26, 2010, the FHLB announed that it had entered into a Consent Agreement with the FHFA, which requires the FHLB to take certain specified actions related to 48 its business and operations. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. We may experience further decreases in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could reduce our earnings. Mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs") are capitalized at estimated fair value when acquired through the origination of loans that are subsequently sold with servicing rights retained. MSRs are amortized to servicing income on loans sold over the period of estimated net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSRs at the date of the sale of loans is determined based on the discounted present value of expected future cash flows using key assumptions for servicing income and costs and prepayment rates on the underlying loans. We periodically evaluate the fair value of MSRs for impairment by comparing actual cash flows and estimated cash flows from the servicing assets to those estimated at the time servicing assets were originated. Our methodology for estimated the fair value of MSRs is highly sensitive to changes in assumptions, such as prepayment speeds. The effect of changes in market interest rates on estimated rates of loan prepayments represents the predominant risk characteristic underlying the MSRs portfolio. For example, a decrease in mortgage interest rates typically increases the prepayment speeds of MSRs and therefore decreases the fair value of the MSRs. We recorded an $890,000 valuation allowance to our MSRs during the year ended September 30, 2010, which reduced our earnings. Future decreases in mortgage interest rates could further decrease the fair value of our MSRs, which would decrease our earnings. Our assets as of September 30, 2010 include a deferred tax asset and we may not be able to realize the full amount of such asset. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement recorded amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At September 30, 2010, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $3.4 million, a decrease from a balance of approximately $4.5 million at September 30, 2009. The net deferred tax asset results primarily from our provisions for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which have been larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting purposes. We regularly review our net deferred tax assets for recoverability based on history of earnings expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at September 30, 2010 is fully realizable; however, if we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust this net deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks specific to our participation in TARP. Because of our participation in the TARP CPP we are subject to restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the TARP CPP we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds an investment in us. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. Pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and its implementing regulations, further compensation restrictions have been imposed on us with respect to our senior executive officers and other most highly compensated employees, including significant limitations on our ability to pay incentive compensation and make severance payments. Such restrictions and any future limitations on compensation that may be adopted could adversely affect our ability to hire and retain the most qualified management and other personnel. 49 The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock. The securities purchase agreement between us and Treasury provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 23, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock or any trust preferred securities. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. As of September 30, 2010, the FRB has denied the Company's request to pay dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock (issued under TARP) for the payments due May 15, 2010 and August 15, 2010. The foregoing, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the warrant described in the next risk factor, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income (loss) to our common shareholders and net income (loss) per common share and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared or accrued on the Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income (increase the net loss) to common shareholders and our net income (loss) per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 5.0% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2010 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. 50 We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- Not applicable. 