D. RISK FACTORS. We depend upon three customers who each account for at least 10% of our sales. We cannot be certain that these sales will continue; if they do not, our revenues will likely decline. -5- Table of Contents Although we sell to a large number of customers in a variety of markets, three of our customers each account for at least 10% of our sales. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, these customers accounted for approximately 9%, 7% and 11% of our 2004 sales and 14%, 11% and 10% of our 2005 sales. Although we have maintained good and longstanding relationships with these customers, we do not have any long-term contracts with them, each of whom orders only on a “purchase order” basis. The loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in their orders would have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. We are controlled by one of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Our largest shareholder beneficially owns or controls approximately 22.5% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2005. Accordingly, he has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, and other significant corporate actions. He also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without the consent of this shareholder, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. We face significant competition from larger competitors. The making and distribution of jewelry is a highly competitive industry characterized by the diversity and sophistication of the product. We compete with major domestic and international companies with substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources and personnel than us. There can be no assurance other jewelry makers will not similarly develop low-cost, high-volume production capability or an even better process, providing greater competition for us and materially affecting our business prospects. There are numerous factors relating to the operations of our business that could adversely affect our success and results. As a maker and merchandiser of low-cost, high-quality gem-set jewelry, our existing and future operations are and will be influenced by several factors, including: • technological developments in the mass production of jewelry; • our ability to meet the design and production requirements of our customers efficiently; • the market acceptance of our and our customers’ jewelry; • increases in expenses associated with continued sales growth; • our ability to control costs; • our management’s ability to evaluate the public’s taste and new orders to target satisfactory profit margins; -6- Table of Contents • our capacity to develop and manage the introduction of new designed products; and • our ability to compete. Quality control is also essential to our operations since customers demand compliance with design and product specifications and consistency of production. We cannot assure that revenue growth will occur on a quarterly or annual basis. Our production facilities are located in China. Our results of operations and financial condition may, therefore, be influenced by the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform, China’s economic and political systems. Such reforms have resulted in significant social progress. Other political, economic and social factors could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refinement and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations in China. At times, we may also be adversely affected by changes in policies of the Chinese government such as changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, the introduction of additional measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation and imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittances abroad. Our products are currently made at our production facility located in Shenzhen, China. However, our insurance may not adequately cover any losses due to fire, casualty or theft. We have obtained fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $37million, covering several of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment and production facility in China. The proceeds of such insurance may not be sufficient to cover material damage to, or the loss of, our production facility due to fire, severe weather, flood or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. Consistent with the customary practice among enterprises in China and due to the cost in relation to the benefit, we do not carry any business interruption insurance in China. Sales of our jewelry to retailers are generally stronger during the quarter ending December 31 of each year due to the importance of the holiday selling season. The approximately 18% of our sales during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 to our TV shopping channel customers was not seasonal in nature. It has been our management’s experience that the remaining 82% of our total sales is seasonally sensitive and is greater during the quarter ending December 31 of each year. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. -7- Table of Contents We have no direct business operations, other than the ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we, as a holding company, decide in the future to do so, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants and minimum net worth requirements in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and substantially all of our assets are located in China and Hong Kong. In addition, all but one of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or substantial portions of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, China or Hong Kong, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about public companies organized in the United States. -8- Table of Contents Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Islands law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. -9- Table of Contents 