Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that affect our operations and therefore could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results. These risks or uncertainties may include, but are not limited to the following factors: Our business is dependent on demand for and supply of single-family homes which is influenced by changes in the overall condition of the U.S. economy, including interest rates, job formation, consumer confidence and other important factors. The residential construction services and building products industry is highly dependent on demand for single-family homes which is influenced by several factors. These factors include economic changes nationally and locally, mortgage and other interest rates, job formation, consumer confidence, demographic trends, inflation and building permit activity as well as other factors. The construction of new homes may also experience declines due to home inventory levels, the availability and affordability of land in attractive metropolitan areas, shortages of qualified trades people, shortages of materials and regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements. Also, changes to housing patterns may occur, such as an increase in consumer demand for urban living rather than single-family suburban neighborhoods. All of these factors could limit demand for home construction and may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There are risks associated with our business model. Our business model seeks the strategic growth of construction services and distribution of building products in an effort to provide a comprehensive solution to high-volume and other homebuilders. Providing these services and products includes the risks of availability and cost of qualified labor and claims for construction defects, product liability and workers compensation as well as the timely sourcing and availability of building products. Additionally, there is no guarantee that our efforts to offer these comprehensive solutions will continue to be accepted by the marketplace. The integration of acquired businesses may not result in anticipated cost savings and revenue synergies being fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Our growth over the past several years has been largely due to acquisitions and we intend to continue this strategy. The integration of acquired businesses may not result in anticipated cost savings and revenue synergies being fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. The management and acquisition of businesses involves substantial risks including: · the uncertainty that an acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results; · significant expenses to integrate; · diversion of management attention; · departure of key personnel from the acquired business; · effectively managing entrepreneurial spirit and decision-making; · integration of different information systems; · managing new construction service trades; · unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; and · impairment of assets. 13 Table of Contents Our growth is dependent upon our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. Our growth over the past several years has been largely due to acquisitions and we intend to continue this strategy. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates could have an adverse effect on our growth. Also, the increasing level of consolidation occurring in the construction services and building products distribution industry may limit the availability and suitability of acquisition candidates. Our success is dependent upon the availability of and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified individuals. Competition for employees is especially intense in both construction services and building products distribution. In markets with strong housing demand, we may experience shortages in qualified labor and key personnel, which may limit our ability to complete contracts as well as obtain additional contracts with builders. Additional and perceived enforcement of as well as changes to immigration policies could also limit the availability of qualified labor. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining qualified employees in the future. An inability to implement and maintain cost structures that align with revenue growth may have an adverse impact on our operating results. When we experience slower periods of homebuilding activity, acquire new businesses or expand existing operations, we may experience inefficiencies in our cost structures. Our evaluation and changes to expenses in response to declining sales may not occur in a timely manner, leading to higher costs and lower returns on sales. Changes in the business models of customers may limit our ability to provide construction services and building products required by our customers. As the business models of our customers evolve, our existing construction service and building product offerings may not meet the needs of certain homebuilders. Additionally, homebuilders may decide to no longer outsource construction services. If we do not timely assess shifts in customer expectations, preferences and demands in a timely manner, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our operating results are affected by fluctuations in our costs and the availability of sourcing channels for commodity wood products, concrete, steel and other building materials. Prices of commodity wood products, concrete, steel and other building products are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in product prices may affect sales as well as margins due to a limited ability to pass on short-term price changes. We do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge commodity price changes. We may experience shortages of building products as a result of unexpected demand or production difficulties as well as transportation limitations. Any disruption in our sources of supply for key building products could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business is subject to intense competition. We experience competition across all markets for our construction services and building products. Recently, there has been increased consolidation within the construction services and building materials distribution industry. As the industry consolidates, other building materials distributors, including large retail distributors focused on consumers, may aggressively pursue our target market of high-volume homebuilders and other professional builders and contractors. These competitive factors may lead to pricing pressures and cause reductions in sales or margins, increases in operating costs and may limit acquisition opportunities. Loss of significant market share due to competition could result in the closure of facilities. 14 Table of Contents Weather conditions, including natural catastrophic events, may cause our operating results to fluctuate each quarter. Our first and fourth quarters historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely affected by weather conditions in some of our markets, causing decreases in operating results due to slower homebuilding activity. In addition, natural catastrophic events may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The nature of our business exposes us to construction defect and product liability claims as well as other legal proceedings. We are involved in construction defect and product liability claims relating to our various construction trades and the products we distribute and manufacture. We also operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face some risk of accidents. Although we believe we maintain adequate insurance, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Current or future claims may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information systems. Our operations are dependent upon information for decision-making and the related information systems. A substantial disruption in our information systems for a prolonged period could result in delays in our services and products and adversely affect our ability to complete contracts and fulfill customer demands. Such delays, problems or costs may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Actual and perceived vulnerabilities as a result of terrorist activities and armed conflict may adversely impact consumer confidence and our business. Instability in the economy and financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may impact consumer confidence and result in a decrease in homebuilding in our markets. Terrorist attacks may also directly impact our ability to maintain operations and services and may have an adverse effect on our business. Federal, state and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other regulations, including among other things, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, transportation regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation, employment regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Numerous other matters of a local and regional scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or regulatory nature may have an adverse impact on our business. Many factors shape the homebuilding industry and our business. In addition to the factors previously cited, there are other matters of a local and regional scale, including those of a political, economic, business, competitive or regulatory nature that may have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Shares Risks related to our shares may include, however are not limited to: Our share price may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to trade our shares when desired or at attractive prices. The market price of our shares is subject to significant changes as a result of our operating performance and the other factors discussed above as well as perceptions and events that are beyond our control. Price and trading volume fluctuations for our shares may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Additionally, our share price could fluctuate based on the expectations and performance of other publicly traded companies in the construction services and building products distribution industry. Anti-takeover defenses in our governing documents and certain provisions under Delaware law could prevent an acquisition of our company or limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our shares. Our governing documents and certain provisions of Delaware law that apply to us could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company. For example, we have a shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” which would make it difficult for someone to acquire our company without the approval of our Board of Directors. Also, our certificate of incorporation allows our Board of Directors to issue, at any time and without shareholder approval, preferred shares with such terms as it may determine. These provisions and others could delay, prevent or allow our Board of Directors to resist an acquisition of our company, even if a majority of our shareholders favored the proposed transaction. 16 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 17 ITEM 