Risk Factors are based on a 12-month operational period without consideration given to the pending transaction. 3 Table of Contents Overview We provide remote communication services for everyday business meetings and events. Virtually all of our communication services are based on proprietary architecture that integrates traditional telephony technology with real-time interactive web tools. Our continuum of interactive services includes Raindance Meeting Edition, Raindance Seminar Edition, Reservationless Conferencing, Web Conferencing Pro, Operator-Assisted Conferencing and Unlimited Conferencing. Raindance Meeting Edition integrates audio, web and multi-point desktop video technology into one multi-media conferencing solution to support small ad-hoc meetings. Raindance Seminar Edition, which was released in June 2005, builds upon the intuitive in-meeting experience in Raindance Meeting Edition and adds unique pre-and post-meeting features to help plan, conduct and manage seminar-style web conferences. Reservationless Conferencing provides for automated reservationless audio conferencing with simple web controls and presentation tools. Web Conferencing Pro allows users to integrate reservationless automated audio conferencing with advanced web interactive tools over the web such as application sharing, web touring and online whiteboarding to support large seminar events. Operator-Assisted Conferencing provides customers with operator assistance during high profile conferencing events and additional services such as call taping, digital replay and transcription, which we often bundle with our Raindance Seminar Edition service. Unlimited Conferencing offers unlimited local toll access to our reservationless conferencing service for a fixed monthly rate. We sell these services to businesses in various markets as well as to resellers of conferencing and communications services, through our direct and indirect sales channels. Our business model is largely usage-based, which generally means that our customers only pay for the services that they use. We also offer our customers monthly subscription rates based on a fixed number of concurrent users. In addition, through our distribution partners, we may also offer our services on a software license basis. We operate as a single business segment. We were incorporated in Delaware in April 1997. We first recorded revenue in 1998 and, excluding the fiscal years 2003 and 2005, have incurred net losses every year since inception. Our principal executive offices are located at 1157 Century Drive, Louisville, Colorado 80027. Remote Meeting Solutions Our integrated audio, web and video conferencing services support various types of meetings from a simple, on-the-fly audio conference to company-wide online training initiatives. These flexible service offerings enable businesses to choose the right solution to meet their specific needs. Our remote communication services offer the following benefits: • Integrated Audio, Web and Video Functions. For everyday conference calls, meeting moderators can use their personal ID to begin a phone conference at anytime without a reservation or an operator. To add another layer of interaction and group collaboration, moderators use the same ID to begin a web conference with interactive features to share rich visual content and encourage higher levels of participation. We provide customers simple and convenient remote communications solutions and we provide our customers access to audio, web and video conferencing with one telephone access number, one user ID, one technical support team and one billing solution. In June 2005 we released enhancements to Raindance Meeting Edition such as integrated record and playback features, as well as content management and enhanced participant interaction through such devices as question and answer and polling. We released Raindance Seminar Edition in June 2005, which complements Raindance Meeting Edition and is designed for large, planned seminar events where there is one main presenter and hundreds or thousands of participants. 4 Table of Contents • Reliability and Security. We designed our facilities and infrastructure to provide the scalability and reliability required to meet the critical communication needs of our customers. We incorporate telecommunications-grade reliability standards into our communication technologies and design our infrastructure to accommodate more participants and usage than we expect. Our SwitchTower® multimedia network is the foundation of our collaborative web, audio and desktop video conferencing services and is a distributed network design allowing Raindance to deliver interactive online meetings and events throughout our network, the Internet and into the enterprise. We monitor servers in our data center with redundant network connections. In addition to offering our services in a secure socket layer, or SSL, environment with 128-bit encryption, we provide a robust firewall configuration that offers layered protection for customer data. Meeting moderators have the ability to further ensure and monitor the security of their meetings using several layers of security, including PIN codes, audio tones that signal when a participant enters or exits, conference lock to prevent additional participants from joining a conference, a participant count feature and unique security codes created by the meeting moderator. • Flexible Pricing. Depending on the customer’s communication needs and selected remote meeting solution, we offer a variety of pricing models to accommodate estimated service usage as well as the customer’s preferred method of payment. A large portion of our services are usage-based, which generally means that our customers pay on a per-minute, per-participant basis. In addition, we also offer our customers monthly subscription rates based on a fixed number of concurrent users. For our distribution partners, we may provide our services through software licenses. We offer several levels of service depending on the customer’s needs. All of our services can be used together or separately to create the ideal remote meeting solution for each customer. Our services include the following: Raindance Meeting Edition. Built on multimedia architecture, that we call the SwitchTower network, Raindance Meeting Edition intuitively integrates audio, web and video technologies into one seamless solution. Raindance Meeting Edition includes innovative features that drive the complexity out of planning, accessing and managing everyday remote meetings. In addition to easy-to-use multi-point video, browser and application sharing features, Raindance Meeting Edition unites directly with users’ desktops and provides seamless Outlook integration. Meeting moderators can use our unique ‘call-me’ feature to dial themselves into the conference with no access numbers to remember and invite participants using a one-click link. To engage participants in a fully collaborative experience as if everyone were in the same room, meeting moderators can allow participants to easily share documents and information in a virtual public workspace, control participants’ interactivity with customized settings and manage a roster of participants engaged in the audio, web and video portions of the meeting. Integrated multimedia recording enables meeting moderators to create a fully synchronized playback that replicates a live meeting, including all visuals, annotation, polling, audio and video. Raindance Seminar Edition. Raindance Seminar Edition builds upon the intuitive in-meeting experience currently offered by Raindance Meeting Edition. Raindance Seminar Edition adds powerful features that help manage larger audiences before, during and after an event and provides users a way to conduct large-scale events without the complexity common in other offerings. Raindance’s unique event creation wizard walks users step-by-step through the scheduling process using a series of simple questions to determine event times, presentation materials, invitees and registration. Moderators can gather detailed information about potential attendees by requiring registration, post events to a public calendar for easy access and increase attendance through meeting invitations that allow invitees to save the information to their Outlook calendars. When conducting an event, all features needed to share visuals and interact with participants are available at the meeting moderator’s fingertips from the main interface. After each event, meeting moderators have access to reports of all the activity that took place before and during the event, including chat, polling, Q&A, participant details and answers to registration questions. Both Raindance Meeting Edition and Raindance Seminar Edition allow participants to choose to interact via the phone or join in listen-only mode using the webcasting feature. Reservationless Conferencing. Our Reservationless Conferencing combines the reliability and universal availability of traditional audio conferencing services with basic web presentations and controls. Using their dedicated toll-free number and unique conference ID and PIN, meeting moderators can begin a conference at any time with up to 125 participants from the phone or the web, without prior reservations or operator assistance. By leveraging our basic web presentation tools and controls, moderators also have the ability to share a visual presentation, extend the reach of their conference by streaming audio and synchronized slide presentations over the web and leverage a suite of conference controls. 5 Table of Contents Web Conferencing Pro. Our Web Conferencing Pro service, available in either Meeting or Seminar version, is a feature-rich web conferencing tool that allows sales, marketing and training professionals to conduct meetings and events online with both internal and external participants. Web Conferencing Pro requires no downloads or plug-ins for meeting participants, allows customers to customize the interface with their company’s colors and logo and offers a single, integrated interface enabling meeting moderators to control both the phone and web functions. Operator-Assisted Conferencing. Our Operator-Assisted Conferencing service provides a higher level of personalized operator support as well as unique features for high-profile conferences and events that need special attention. This service allows meeting moderators to contact an operator to schedule a conference call, select the appropriate features for their event and provide event management support. Operator-Assisted Conferencing provides features such as an operator-led question and answer session with meeting participants, call taping for later replay and fax services enabling moderators to distribute additional printed materials before or after the conference. Operator-Assisted Conferencing can be used in conjunction with Web Conferencing Pro Meeting or Seminar to support events with up to 2,500 participants. Unlimited Conferencing. Raindance’s Unlimited Conferencing service provides small and medium-sized businesses a convenient way to conduct audio and web conferences with a predictable, low price. Our fully automated, flat-rate conferencing service allows meeting moderators to use their unique conference ID and PIN to conference as often as they choose, all billed at one fixed cost. With Unlimited Conferencing, moderators and participants dial into the conference using their dedicated local exchange toll call number. Similar to Raindance Reservationless Conferencing, Unlimited Conferencing requires no reservations to initiate a conference with as many participants as the moderator’s account allows. Unlimited Conferencing also includes phone and web commands to control the conference and integrated web functions to share a presentation, conduct Q&A and view online reports. Future Service Offerings We intend to leverage the infrastructure, technologies, and proprietary systems of our next-generation network and services to facilitate the deployment of service enhancements and additional business communication solutions. For example, in January 2006 we introduced internet audio broadcasting, or webcasting to our suite of multimedia conferencing services, which allows participants to experience web, audio and video of a live event without picking up the phone, while retaining rich interactivity through the suite of online tools available to them. Customers We have a diverse base of customers across numerous vertical markets, such as computer software, business services, manufacturing and financial services. For the year ended December 31, 2005 we had 5,862 revenue generating customers. In 2005, direct customers accounted for 78% of our revenue. In addition, we partner with resellers, such as conferencing and communications providers, to leverage their large and established customer bases. Some of our distribution partners also use our services internally. In 2005, we generated 22% of our revenue from these relationships. No single customer accounted for greater than 10% of total 2005 revenue. Our five largest customers represented $14.8 million or 19.9% of our total 2005 revenue and $17.5 million or 23.3% of our total 2004 revenue. Our ten largest customers represented $18.9 million or 25.4% of our total 2005 revenue and $22.1 million or 29.3% of our total 2004 revenue. This indicates a diminishing financial concentration in our five and ten largest customers; however, a loss of any one of these customers would still negatively impact our financial results. Our results typically fluctuate based on seasonal sales patterns. Our operating results have shown decreases in our usage-based services around certain holiday periods, such as during the spring, summer, Thanksgiving, December and New Year holidays. We expect that our revenue during these seasons will not grow at the same rates as compared to other periods of the year because of decreased use of our services by business customers. 6 Table of Contents Technology We have invested substantial human and capital resources to develop proprietary systems and applications that integrate disparate telephony and Internet communication technologies. Our layered approach to building applications allows us to effectively leverage our existing infrastructure, technologies and proprietary systems to accommodate changes in the marketplace. We believe this gives us a competitive advantage by allowing us to quickly and reliably develop new services and enhance our existing services based on evolving market needs. We believe that our technological resources give us the following benefits: • the ability to identify new, and enhance existing, web conferencing services; • the ability to build integrated applications by combining traditional telephony, voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) and Internet communication technologies; and • the ability to build a reliable and scalable communication infrastructure. The technologies that support our business fall into four areas described below: Data Infrastructure. Our data infrastructure provides Internet connectivity between our end customers and our automated services. We run a multi-home network infrastructure and operate our own private networks between our on-premises data center and leased data centers. Our entire data infrastructure is redundant with network cores consisting of some of the industry’s most advanced gigabit technology. All data circuits are delivered over multiple local loop providers and travel to our data facilities over disparate paths. Critical choke-points in our data architecture are load balanced. With the architecture design we currently have in place, we have maintained constant service availability at the data layer for our customers’ connectivity. Currently we provide over 450 Mbits of data layer connectivity to our customers over three separate Internet backbones. Voice Infrastructure. Our voice infrastructure provides the telephony connectivity to our customers that is required for the audio conferencing aspects of our services. Our voice infrastructure consists of dynamically routed SS7 call processing systems and non-routed systems that integrate closely with our network providers. These logical layer connections are made over diverse local loop fiber routes and connect to geographically disparate switching fabrics. Currently we have over 1,000 T1 voice circuits in production from three service providers. We have developed proprietary schemes and methodologies to provide higher uptime statistics than systems utilizing single network architectures. Application Infrastructure. Our application infrastructure is developed in-house and represents a substantial portion of our intellectual property and a considerable competitive advantage. Our ability to offer our customers integrated audio and web functionality is a hallmark of our proprietary layering methodology. This functionality provides us an advantage over competitors with less integrated offerings. Our application infrastructure is largely Java based and is highly redundant and scalable. Business Infrastructure. We operate a largely custom and proprietary business infrastructure layer that consists of custom real-time billing and rating engines. These functions enable us to provide our customers with critical business information and tools. Our architecture is designed to allow us to use information from each of the other infrastructure layers described above, and as a result, we can provide current billing information for virtually any type of communication action that is enabled by our platform. The business infrastructure layer uses Oracle 9i for all storage and runs on multiple redundant and host standby servers. Our business layer also allows us to adapt to changing requirements as next generation services mature. Research and Development Our research and development efforts are currently focused on leveraging the infrastructure, technologies, and proprietary systems of our next-generation network and services to facilitate the deployment of service enhancements and additional business communication solutions to meet the changing needs of our diverse customer base. We believe our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and introduce new services and enhancements. We expensed, inclusive of stock-based compensation, approximately $10.4 million, $10.6 million and $8.9 million related to research and development activities in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of March 1, 2006, we had a total of 61 full-time engineers and developers engaged in research and development activities. We intend to devote substantial resources to research and development for the next several years. 7 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales. We currently sell our services through a direct sales force and indirect sales channels. As of March 1, 2006, we had 119 full-time employees engaged in sales and marketing. Our direct sales force targets our services primarily to large and medium-sized corporations with a proven need for business communication services in diverse vertical markets, such as computer software, business services, manufacturing and financial services. We also have an account management team that is responsible for developing our relationships and expanding opportunities within our existing customers. Our indirect sales initiatives allow us to extend our reach to businesses of all sizes by developing alternative distribution channels. The efforts of our indirect sales group focus on partnering with resellers, such as conferencing and communications providers, to leverage their customer bases and distribution channels. We private label or co-brand our services for these partners depending on their requirements. We also partner with agents to expand the size and reach of our direct sales efforts. A significant percentage of our sales force compensation is commission based. Marketing. We primarily focus our marketing efforts on direct marketing programs aimed at our target customers. We seek to generate qualified leads for our sales team, educate and retain existing customers, generate brand awareness through proactive public relations and drive service enhancements using research and customer feedback. Customer Service We offer customer support and operator assistance 24 hours a day, seven days a week, free of charge, to our customers. Technical and customer support is available through a toll-free telephone number and email request system. In addition, our users can request operator help during a conference directly from their computer or on their telephone. We also offer substantial self-serve information databases in the form of frequently asked questions, and user and quick reference guides hosted on our web site. As of March 1, 2006, we employed 27 full-time technical and customer support representatives to respond to customer requests for support. The vast majority of our requests for customer support are based on general product functionality and basic technical assistance, such as browser setting adjustments. The majority of our customer inquiries can be addressed during an operations technician’s initial contact with the customer. If the issue cannot be resolved immediately, it is escalated to our Level II support team. If further help is required the issue is transferred to our Level III support team. Once the issue is identified and a timeline for a resolution is determined, the associated operations account manager will contact the customer with the resolution plan. Additionally, all customer incidents are tracked within our database for future reference and technical pattern analysis. Competition The market for web conferencing services is relatively new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Competition in our market will continue to intensify and competitors are investing significant resources to develop, market and sell competitive services. As a result, we have experienced in the past and may continue to experience further price reductions, reduced sales, revenue and margins, and reduced acceptance of our services. We believe that the primary competitive factors in the web conferencing services market include: • pricing; • ease of use of services and breadth of features; • brand identity; • quality and reliability of communication services; • compatibility with new and existing communication formats; • access to and penetration of distribution channels necessary to achieve broad distribution; • ability to protect intellectual property; 8 Table of Contents • quality of customer service; • ability to develop and support secure formats for communication delivery; • scalability of communication services; and • challenges caused by bandwidth constraints and other limitations of the Internet infrastructure. Our failure to adequately address any of the above factors could harm our competitive position. As an integrated provider of web and audio conferencing services, we compete with stand-alone providers of web conferencing and traditional teleconferencing services. In the web conferencing services market our principal competitors include Centra Software, Cisco Systems, Citrix, Genesys, IBM, Macromedia, Microsoft and WebEx. Our principal competitors in the teleconferencing market include AT&T, Genesys, Global Crossing, MCI, Premiere Global Services (formerly PTEK), and West Corporation. Some of our competitors have entered or expanded their positions in the conferencing market by acquiring competitors of ours. For example, Microsoft acquired Placeware, Cisco Systems acquired Latitude Communications, and West Corporation acquired Intercall and Sprint’s conferencing division. In addition, large software companies, such as Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, Citrix and Macromedia, are also providing web conferencing products in addition to their software offerings. Additionally, Cisco offers internal telecommunications hardware solutions that impact the audio conferencing market. These large companies have expended significantly greater resources developing, enhancing, marketing and selling conferencing products, services and/or software that directly compete with our offerings, and because these companies can leverage widespread use of their products and services by existing customers to capture market share in the conferencing market, our market share as well as our revenue may significantly decline. Other competitors or potential competitors may enter or expand their positions in the web conferencing services market by acquiring one of our competitors, by forming strategic alliances with these competitors or by developing an integrated offering of services. We also compete with resellers of web and audio conferencing services. Additionally, there are a number of private companies that have entered or may enter the web conferencing services market. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger and more established customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader service offerings, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to spread costs across diversified lines of business, and therefore, adopt aggressive strategies, such as reduced pricing structures and large-scale marketing campaigns, that reduce our ability to compete effectively. Telecommunication providers, for example, enjoy lower telephony costs as a result of their ownership of the underlying telecommunication network. Many more companies have entered and will continue to enter this market and invest significant resources to develop conferencing services that compete with ours. These current and future competitors may also offer or develop products or services that perform better than ours and as a result capture market share that may reduce our share as well as our revenue. Intellectual Property The success of our business is substantially dependent on the proprietary systems that we have developed. Currently, we have five issued patents in the United States. These patents cover functionality related to our Web Conferencing Pro service. We also have fourteen pending patent applications in the United States covering aspects of our existing and next-generation services and infrastructure. We may file more patent applications in the future. There is no assurance that our current and future patent applications will result in any patents being issued. If they are issued, any patent claims allowed may not be sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, any current or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and any right granted thereunder may not provide meaningful protection to us. The failure of any patent to provide protection for our technology would make it easier for other companies or individuals to develop and market similar systems and services without infringing upon any of our intellectual property rights. 9 Table of Contents In addition, we have been sued for patent infringement in the past, are currently litigating patent infringement lawsuits against Webex Communications, Inc., and may be subject to additional claims alleging patent and intellectual property infringement in the future. As the number of competitors in our market grows, there is an increased risk that the proprietary systems and software upon which our services rely may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims. From time to time, we have received notices alleging that we infringe issued third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. When this happens, we evaluate the allegations based on an investigation of the intellectual property asserted against our services. In addition, we evaluate our ability to allege counterclaims. We may also evaluate settlement opportunities, including licensing or cross-licensing arrangements that may include royalty provisions or distribution restrictions, neither of which may be advantageous for our business. In some cases, these matters result in litigation, which is expensive, time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources. Claims of this nature could require us to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of their merit. Legal proceedings to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights are burdensome and expensive, and as a result, these proceedings have negatively affected, and are expected to continue to negatively affect, our financial results. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or halt or delay distribution of our services while we reengineer them or seek licenses for necessary intellectual property, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Our protection efforts may prove to be unsuccessful and unauthorized parties may copy or infringe upon aspects of our technology, services or other intellectual property rights. In addition, these parties may develop similar technology independently. Existing trade secret, copyright and trademark laws offer only limited protection and may not be available in every country in which we intend to offer our services. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult. Each trademark, trade name or service mark appearing in this report belongs to its holder. Raindance, Raindance Communications, SwitchTower, OpenGo and our logo are trademarks or registered trademarks owned by us; all other company and product names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners. Acquisition On September 27, 2005, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire certain assets of BCE Conferencing, Inc. (BCE), a conferencing company primarily operating in the United States and on September 30, 2005 we completed the acquisition. At the time of the acquisition BCE was reselling our Reservationless Conferencing service and we had recorded approximately $1.3 million in revenue from BCE in the first nine months of 2005. The aggregate purchase consideration paid to BCE was $5.9 million which was allocated as follows: $1.1 million to accounts receivable, $2.7 million to goodwill and $2.1 million to amortizable intangible assets. The amortizable intangible assets are comprised of customer relationships which will be amortized on an accelerated method over five years and non-competition agreements which will be amortized using the straight-line method over 28 months. Effective October 1, 2005, the results of BCE’s operations were included in our financial statements. Employees As of March 1, 2006, we employed 233 full-time people. The employees included 26 in general and administrative functions, 27 in customer service, 119 in sales and marketing and 61 in research and development. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel. Our employees are not represented by a labor union or covered by any collective bargaining agreements. We consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information You may read and copy materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE; Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may also obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that, like us, file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet site can be found at “http://www.sec.gov.” Our reports are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Our website address is www.raindance.com. Once at www.raindance.com, go to Investor Center/SEC Filings and Financials. Our internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they are inherently uncertain. This document contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. We use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “future,” “intend,” “plan” and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this document. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us and described on the following pages and elsewhere in this document. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements included in this document. We believe it is important to communicate our expectations to our investors. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language in this document, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations we describe in our forward-looking statements. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this document could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. If the proposed acquisition of Raindance by West Corporation is not completed, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. The proposed acquisition of Raindance by West Corporation is subject to customary closing conditions, including the adoption of the merger agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, customary regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. Therefore, the acquisition may not be completed or may not be completed in the expected time period. If our merger agreement with West is terminated, the market price of our common stock will likely decline, as we believe that our market price reflects an assumption that the proposed merger will be completed. In addition, our stock price may be adversely affected as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the proposed merger that will not be recovered if it is not completed. If the merger agreement is terminated, we may under certain circumstances be obligated to pay West a termination fee of $4,500,000 plus expenses of up to $700,000. As a consequence of the failure of the merger to be completed, as well as of some or all of these potential effects of the termination of the merger agreement, our business could be materially and adversely affected. The fact that there is an acquisition of our company pending could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations. While the proposed acquisition is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future. As a result of this uncertainty, customers may decide to delay, defer, or cancel purchases of our products pending completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. If these decisions represent a significant portion of our anticipated revenue, our results of operations and quarterly revenues could be substantially below the expectations of market analysts. In addition, while the merger proposal is pending, we are subject to a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, revenue and results of operations, including: • the diversion of management and employee attention and the unavoidable disruption to our relationships with customers and vendors may detract from our ability to grow revenues and minimize costs; • we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the merger; • operational restrictions in the merger agreement that restrict in certain ways our ability to operate our business freely; and • we may be unable to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities. 11 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and we may not maintain profitability. Our operating costs have exceeded our revenue in each full fiscal year since our inception in April 1997, except for the fiscal years 2003 and 2005. We have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $167.7 million from our inception through December 31, 2005. Although we reported net income in all four quarters of 2005, there can be no assurance that we will maintain profitability in the future, particularly if existing or future competitors decrease our market share, if price pressure increases, if we are unable to retain our large customers or acquire new ones, if our next-generation services do not achieve widespread market acceptance, if such services reduce our revenue from our existing services, if our revenue from web-related services does not substantially increase, or if we are unable to increase our market share as the web conferencing market grows. In addition, a change in accounting rules related to stock compensation expense and an increase in intellectual property litigation costs are anticipated to significantly affect our financial results, particularly our net income, in the first quarter of 2006 and beyond. If we are not able to significantly increase revenue, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales and marketing, research and development, or other operating expenses, and as a result, we may be unable to continue our operations as currently planned. Increasing our revenue may be difficult for us to do as a result of increased competition, price pressure and other risk factors described in this section. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business. We have a limited operating history and you should not rely on our recent results as an indication of our future performance. We were incorporated in April 1997 and first recorded revenue in January 1998. In January 2001, we restructured our company to focus solely on our conferencing services. In connection with this restructuring, we made significant changes to our services and growth strategies, our sales and marketing plans, and other operational matters, including a significant reduction in our employee base. In addition, we have made significant organizational and operating changes since that time, such as changes in our marketing and sales management, as well as the recent organizational changes announced on January 3, 2006 which included the departure of our Executive Vice President of Sales and the naming of a new President and Chief Operating Officer. As a result, we have a limited relevant operating history and it may be difficult to evaluate an investment in our company, and we cannot be certain that our business model and future operating performance will yield the results that we intend. As such, we may be required to restructure our company and operations again in the future. In addition, the rapidly changing nature of the web conferencing market makes it difficult or impossible for us to predict future results and you should not expect our future revenue growth to equal or exceed historical growth rates and in some periods our revenue has declined. In fact, our revenue in 2004 and 2005 has decreased from historical growth rates. There are a number of factors described in this section that could cause fluctuations in our operating results in any particular period. If any of these risks are not within our control or we are otherwise unable to address these risks in a cost-effective manner or at all, our operating results will be harmed. We may fail to meet market expectations because of fluctuations or lack of growth in our quarterly operating results, which would cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from period to period in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in future periods. In fact, our revenue decreased in the four sequential quarters of 2004 and the first three quarters of 2005. Year-over-year comparisons show revenue with declines or lack of significant growth. In addition, our quarterly operating results ranged between $1.8 million and $0.4 million net income in the four quarters ended December 31, 2005. Many of the factors that affect our quarterly operating results are beyond our control, such as increased competition, pricing pressure, our ability to retain customers and acquire new customers, market demand for our services and our ability to timely and successfully deliver new services to market. Additionally, we expect our results will fluctuate based on seasonal sales patterns. Our operating results have shown decreases in our usage-based services around certain times, such as spring, summer, Thanksgiving, December and New Year holidays. We expect that our revenue during these seasons will not grow at the same rates as compared to other periods of the year because of decreased use of our services by business customers. As a result of these factors and other risks described in this section, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would decline. 12 Table of Contents A high percentage of our revenue is attributable to repeat customers, none of whom are obligated to continue to use our services. The failure of continued use of our services by existing customers could harm our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. A high percentage of our revenue is attributable to repeat customer usage of our services. Our customers are not obligated to continue to use our services as we provide our services largely on a usage-based pricing model. We expect the trend away from subscription-based pricing to usage-based pricing to continue. For example, in the year ended December 31, 2005, 92.4% of our revenue was usage-based as compared to 91.1% in the year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, customers have no obligation to renew subscription contracts with us. As a result, our inability to retain existing customers and sustain or increase their usage of our services could result in lower than expected revenue, and therefore, impact our ability to maintain profitability, and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, because many of our customers have no continuing obligations with us, we may face increased downward pricing pressure that has caused, and will continue to cause, a decrease in our gross margins. The reasons we have lost customers have included the failure of our services or systems to meet customers’ performance expectations or requirements, customers’ decision to purchase competitive products or services for reasons such as lower price, greater brand recognition and broader features and functionality, or the lack of significant efforts required to educate our customers about the benefits of our services. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to large customers that have no obligation to continue to use our services. We target our services to large companies and as a result, we may experience an increase in customer concentration. For example, our top five customers accounted for 19.9% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005. The sixth through twenty-fifth largest customers represented 14.0% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005. These large customers have no obligation to continue to use our services. If any of our large customers stop using our services or are unable to pay their debts as they become due, our operating results, including revenue and our ability to maintain profitability, will be harmed. If our revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, our financial results will be negatively impacted, which may require us to reduce our operating expenses. We project sales and marketing, research and development and other operating expenses based on our estimates of future revenue. If our revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that period or at all, in which case our operating results and ability to maintain profitability would be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, we may be required to reduce our sales and marketing, research and development and other operating expenses, and as a result, we may be unable to continue our operations as currently planned, thereby further harming our financial results. We have experienced significant pricing pressure, which is expected to continue and has negatively impacted our financial results. The prices for our services are subject to rapid and frequent changes, particularly our Reservationless Conferencing service. For example, our average price per usage based minute for this service declined by 11.4% in the year ended December 31, 2005 from 2004. We expect this trend to continue into the foreseeable future. In many cases, competitors provide their services at significantly reduced rates, for free or on a trial basis in order to win customers. In addition, telecommunications providers enjoy lower telephony costs as a result of their ownership of the underlying telecommunications network. As a result, these carriers can offer services similar to ours at substantially reduced prices. In addition, some telecommunications providers have implemented IP-based voice platforms to further decrease the cost of telephony services. Due to competitive factors and the rapidly changing marketplace, we have reduced our pricing in many circumstances and expect we will be required to further reduce our pricing in the future. Audio-only conferencing revenue constituted 83.6% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2005 and we expect that audio-only conferencing revenue will continue to constitute the vast majority of our revenue in the near term. As such, significant pricing pressure has negatively impacted, and will continue to negatively impact, our financial results. 13 Table of Contents The growth of our business substantially depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new services and features in a timely manner. Our growth depends on our ability to develop leading-edge web conferencing services and features. For example, we recently released our next-generation multi-media services, Raindance Meeting Edition and Raindance Seminar Edition, including enhancements thereto. Despite these releases, we need to continually release additional features, functionalities and services to remain competitive in the market. Many companies, including some of our competitors, are utilizing less costly resources in China and India to develop and enhance their products and services. As a result, our competitors are able to develop and introduce additional products, services and features more quickly and more cost-effectively than we can. If the services and features we develop fail to achieve widespread market acceptance or fail to generate significant revenue to offset operational costs, we may not be able to compete effectively, and as a result, our financial results may be harmed and we may not be able to maintain profitability. In addition, we have experienced development delays and cost overruns in our development efforts in the past and we may encounter these problems in the future. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. In addition, our ability to develop and introduce new services and features may depend on our ability to license or otherwise acquire technologies from third parties. In such cases, we may be unable to identify suitable candidates or come to terms acceptable to us, particularly if such need arises from an intellectual property dispute. We also may not be able to successfully alter the design of our systems to integrate new technologies. Our next-generation services may impact the revenue we receive from existing services. Raindance Meeting Edition and Raindance Seminar Edition, our next-generation services, may negatively impact the revenue we receive for our existing services, particularly our Web Conferencing Pro services. While we intend to continue to sell our Web Conferencing Pro services, this service is losing market share due to the vast majority of our resources being expended on our next-generation services and this product becoming obsolete. In the event that our next-generation services do not generate significant revenue to offset any declining revenue from Web Conferencing Pro services, our financial performance could be negatively affected, particularly revenue, gross margins and our ability to maintain profitability. In addition, a new audio webcasting feature we released in connection with our next-generation services may offset revenue we receive for our Reservationless Conferencing service, which accounts for the vast majority of our revenues, and could negatively affect other financial results, such as our ability to maintain profitability. Competition in the web conferencing services and software market is intense and we may be unable to compete successfully, particularly as a result of recent announcements from large software companies. The market for web conferencing services and software is relatively new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. Competition in our market will continue to intensify and competitors are investing significant resources to develop, market and sell competitive services. As a result, we have experienced in the past and may continue to experience further price reductions, reduced sales, revenue and margins, and reduced acceptance of our services. As an integrated provider of web and audio conferencing services, we compete with stand-alone providers of web conferencing and traditional teleconferencing services. In the web conferencing services market our principal competitors include Centra Software, Cisco Systems, Citrix, Genesys, IBM, Macromedia, Microsoft and WebEx. Our principal competitors in the teleconferencing market include AT&T, Genesys, Global Crossing, MCI, Premiere Global Services (formerly PTEK), and West Corporation. Some of our competitors have entered or expanded their positions in the conferencing market by acquiring competitors of ours. For example, Microsoft acquired Placeware, Cisco Systems acquired Latitude Communications, and West Corporation acquired Intercall and Sprint’s conferencing division. In addition, large software companies, such as Microsoft, Oracle, IBM, Citrix and Macromedia, are also providing web conferencing products in addition to their software offerings. Additionally, Cisco offers internal telecommunications hardware solutions that impact the audio conferencing market. These large companies have expended significantly greater resources developing, enhancing, marketing and selling conferencing products, services and/or software that directly compete with our offerings, and because these companies can leverage widespread use of their products and services by existing customers to capture market share in the conferencing market, our market share as well as our revenue may significantly decline. 14 Table of Contents We also compete with resellers of web and audio conferencing services. There are also a number of private companies that have entered or may enter the web conferencing market. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger and more established customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader service offerings, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to spread costs across diversified lines of business, and therefore, adopt aggressive strategies, such as reduced pricing structures and large-scale marketing campaigns, that reduce our ability to compete effectively. Telecommunication providers, for example, enjoy lower telephony costs as a result of their ownership of the underlying telecommunication network. Competition in the conferencing services market may increase due to competitors’ entering or expanding their positions in the marketplace. Other competitors or potential competitors may enter or expand their positions in the conferencing market by acquiring one of our competitors, by forming strategic alliances with these competitors or by developing an integrated offering of services. Many more companies have entered and will continue to enter this market and invest significant resources to develop conferencing services that compete with ours. These current and future competitors may also offer or develop products or services that perform better than ours and as a result capture market share that may reduce our share as well as our revenue. In addition, acquisitions or strategic partnerships involving our current and potential competitors could harm us in a number of ways. For example: • competitors could acquire or partner with companies with which we have distribution relationships and discontinue our partnership, resulting in the loss of distribution opportunities for our services; • competitors could be acquired by or enter into strategic relationships with third parties that have greater resources and experience than we do, such as the Cisco/Latitude, Microsoft/Placeware, and West/Intercall and West/Sprint acquisitions, thereby reducing our ability to compete with such competitors; or • competitors could acquire or partner with our key suppliers, such as the acquisition of Voyant Technologies, our primary conferencing bridge supplier, by Polycom, Inc. Our sales cycle makes it difficult to predict our quarterly operating results. Our sales cycle varies from several weeks to several months depending on the type and size of customer approached. Oftentimes, potential customers require approvals from multiple decision makers within their organizations. In addition, since most of our services are provided on a usage-based pricing model, it generally takes several weeks or months before our services are ramped for use within an organization. We also have experienced long sales cycles because we need to educate customers on the benefits of our web conferencing services, particularly Raindance Meeting Edition. These variables make it difficult for us to predict if and when our services will be adopted and used by our customers. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict. We have limited marketing, branding and lead-generation efforts, which may not be successful. We believe that significant marketing efforts are required to achieve brand recognition, to educate customers and potential customers on the benefits of our services, and to increase adoption of our services. We have limited resources, however, to support marketing, branding and lead generation efforts. As such, our current and planned marketing efforts may not be sufficient or successful to achieve the results we intend. As a result, our business may be negatively impacted, which may require us to further reduce investments in marketing. 15 Table of Contents Our business and operating results may suffer if we do not retain our existing distribution partners, if we fail to establish new distribution relationships or if our distribution partners do not successfully market and sell our services. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 21.7% of our revenue was attributable to our indirect service customers. These customers may not be obligated to distribute our services through their sales channels. In addition, these customers may not be obligated to continue to use our services or renew any subscription agreements with us. As a result, we cannot anticipate the amount of revenue we will derive from these relationships in the future. Our inability to retain these customers and sustain or increase their distribution of our services could result in significant reductions in our revenue or we may be required to reduce the price they pay for our services, and therefore, reduce our margins and negatively affect our ability to maintain profitability. If we fail to establish new distribution relationships in a timely manner or if our distribution partners do not successfully distribute our services, our ability to achieve widespread adoption for our services will suffer and our business and operating results will be harmed. Establishing these distribution relationships can take several months or more. In some cases, our service limitations, such as our inability to offer branding capabilities to our resellers, has prevented us and will continue to prevent us from establishing distribution relationships. Additionally, since the vast majority of our contracts with our distribution partners are usage-based, it typically takes several months or longer before our distribution arrangements generate revenue. Our distribution partners are not prohibited from offering and reselling the products and services of our competitors and may choose to devote greater resources to marketing and supporting the products and services of our competitors. If we do not attract or retain qualified management and personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel. We have made significant organizational and operating changes to our business, particularly our sales and marketing departments several times, including most recently on January 3, 2006 which included the departure of the Executive Vice President of Sales and the naming of a new President and Chief Operating Officer. These organizational changes may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified management and personnel. If we are not successful in attracting or retaining these individuals, our business may be disrupted, management time and resources may be expended and, as a result, our financial results may be harmed. In addition, the proposed acquisition and the uncertainty as it relates to job security may also significantly impact our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees, which may harm our business. Historically, we have relied on stock options and our employee stock purchase plan as significant benefits to existing and new employees. Because of changes in accounting regulations that took effect beginning January 1, 2006, we have reduced our reliance on stock options and the stock purchase plan as a compensation and benefit tool for employees, which could make it even more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. We have been sued for breach of contract and unjust enrichment and may be subject to additional litigation. On May 17, 2004, a complaint was filed against us by iTalk, LLC in the District Court of Boulder County, Colorado alleging breach of contract and unjust enrichment, seeking damages and injunctive relief regarding an expired covenant not to compete in a license agreement entered into in March 1999. On June 15, 2005, the Court granted iTalk’s motion to amend its complaint to add an additional plaintiff and additional claims for fraud and negligent misrepresentation and to continue the trial date to June 5, 2006. On December 1, 2005, iTalk and the additional plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint to assert new theories for recovering under the pre-existing claims for breach of contract and unjust enrichment. The Company filed an opposition to such motion on December 16, 2005. The Court granted plaintiff’s motion on January 30, 2006. While Raindance disputes plaintiff’s claims and intends to defend against them vigorously litigation is inherently unpredictable and there can be no assurance that we will prevail. In addition, we may be subject to other litigation, including from employees or former employees. In addition, if we hire employees from our competitors, these competitors may claim that we have violated agreements with their former employees or otherwise violated the law. Litigation could require us to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves regardless of merit. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions and divert management attention and resources. We have been sued for patent infringement by a significant competitor and may be subject to additional claims alleging patent and intellectual property infringement in the future. On September 27, 2005, a complaint was filed against us by Webex Communications, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging patent infringement of nine U.S. patents, seeking damages and injunctive relief. Raindance disputes plaintiff’s claims and intends to defend against them vigorously. On October 14, 2005 Raindance filed a complaint against Webex in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging patent infringement of two U.S. patents, seeking damages and injunctive relief. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and there can be no assurance that we will prevail. We have been sued 16 Table of Contents for patent infringement in the past and may be subject to additional claims alleging patent and intellectual property infringement in the future. As the number of competitors in our market grows, there is an increased risk that the proprietary systems and software upon which our services rely may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims. In addition, there are an increasing number of companies with no products or services that have purchased patents for the explicit purpose of enforcing them against companies and demanding license payments and royalties with the threat of litigation. Our services may infringe issued third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. There may also be pending patent applications related to our services that we are unaware of since these applications are not made public until issued. From time to time, we have received notices alleging that we infringe issued third-party patents or other intellectual property rights and we may continue to receive such notices. When this happens, we evaluate the allegations based on an investigation of the intellectual property asserted against our services. In addition, we evaluate our ability to allege counterclaims. We may also evaluate settlement opportunities, including licensing or cross-licensing arrangements that may include royalty provisions or distribution restrictions, neither of which may be advantageous for our business. In some cases, these matters, like the Webex matter, result in litigation, which is expensive, time-consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources. Claims of this nature could require us to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves, regardless of their merit. Legal proceedings to defend our intellectual property rights are burdensome and expensive, and as a result, these proceedings have negatively affected, and are expected to continue to negatively affect, our financial results. In addition, if any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or halt or delay distribution of our services while we reengineer them or seek licenses to necessary intellectual property, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our patents may not be sufficient to protect our technology, our competitors may be able to create systems with similar functionality to ours and third parties may obtain unauthorized use of our intellectual property. The success of our business is substantially dependent on the proprietary systems that we have developed. We own five patents issued in the United States relating to features of our web conferencing services. Other than these issued patents, our proprietary systems are not currently protected by any patents and our current patent claims may not be sufficient to protect our technology. On October 14, 2005 Raindance filed a complaint against Webex Communications, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging patent infringement of two U.S. patents, seeking damages and injunctive relief. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and there can be no assurance that we will prevail. Legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights are burdensome and expensive, and as a result, these proceedings have negatively affected, and are expected to continue to negatively affect, our financial results. Additionally, when asserted in litigation, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In any litigation the outcome is uncertain. We have 14 pending patent applications in the United States covering aspects of our existing and next-generation services and infrastructure; however, there is no assurance that our current and future patent applications will result in any patents being issued. If they are issued, any patent claims allowed may not be sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, any current or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, particularly in the context of patent litigation, and any right granted thereunder may not provide meaningful protection to us. The failure of any patent to provide protection for our technology would make it easier for other companies or individuals to develop and market similar systems and services without infringing upon any of our intellectual property rights. To protect our intellectual property rights, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, copyrights, and confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our web conferencing services and other intellectual property. Unauthorized third parties may copy or infringe upon aspects of our technology, services or other intellectual property. Regardless of our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors and others may be able to develop similar systems and services without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our proprietary systems and services may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property and we may not have any adequate remedies. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection for intellectual property such as ours in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain countries. In addition, our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. 17 Table of Contents We substantially depend on a single supplier for conferencing bridges and a limited number of sources for telephony services, the loss of which could cause significant delays and increased costs in providing services to our existing and prospective customers. We purchase substantially all of our conferencing bridges from a single supplier, Voyant Technologies, which was acquired by Polycom, Inc. Any extended reduction, interruption or discontinuation in the supply of these bridges would cause significant delays and increased costs in providing services to our existing and prospective customers. These bridges form the basis of our audio conferencing infrastructure, upon which the majority of our services rely. In order to continue to expand our infrastructure capacity, we must purchase additional components from this supplier. We typically operate at 50% to 70% of capacity. If we are required to find alternative sources for conferencing bridges, we may experience difficulty in integrating them into our infrastructure and we could be required to expend significant money and resources, which may harm our operating results. Due to increased price compression in the conferencing industry, we have altered the architecture of our audio conferencing network. In the past, we have architected our audio conferencing network with conferencing bridges and telephony services to automatically route calls into conferences. While more reliable, the cost of this routed architectural approach is more expensive than a non-routed architecture. For example, the cost of purchasing routed telephony services is more expensive than it would be to purchase non-routed telephony services. In addition, our costs of purchasing routed telephony services have not decreased at the same rate as our prices have for Reservationless Conferencing. In order to reduce costs, we altered the majority of our architecture of our audio conferencing network to a non-routed network in order to take advantage of lower priced telephony services. This is expensive as we have spent $3.1 million in 2005 to purchase non-routed conferencing bridges which has impacted our financial performance by increasing our depreciation expense. Our transition to VoIP technology is subject to significant risks, delays and costs. We announced in the past that we intended to transition some of our long distance telephony traffic onto a VoIP platform. To effect this change, we become subject to significant risks, delays and costs. The costs associated with a transition to a new service provider are substantial. For example, we have reengineered our systems and infrastructure to accommodate our new service provider, and expect to continue to do so, which is both expensive and time-consuming. In addition, we have experienced disruptions and delays in this transition. For example, our primary bridge conferencing vendor did not have certain functionality available in conferencing bridges required for this transition in the time periods we initially anticipated. As such, we expect our transition to a widespread VoIP platform to be delayed. There also may be unforeseen circumstances as a result of this transition that may cause delays in transitioning our long distance telephony traffic. In addition, we still are contractually obligated to pay our VoIP provider for VoIP network services that we are not utilizing. These delays and costs may negatively impact our ability to maintain profitability. If any of the third party services that we use become unavailable to us, our services would be subject to significant delays and increased costs. We rely on third party services, such as Internet access, transport and long distance providers. These companies may not continue to provide services to us without disruptions, at the current cost, or at all. The costs associated with a transition to a new service provider would be substantial. We may be required to reengineer our systems and infrastructure to accommodate a new service provider, which would be both expensive and time-consuming. In addition, we have experienced disruptions and delays in our services in the past due to service disruptions from these providers. Any interruption in the delivery of our services would likely cause a loss of revenue and a loss of customers. Our business will suffer if our systems or services fail or become unavailable. A reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our systems or services will harm our ability to provide our services to our users, as well as harm our reputation. Some of our customers have experienced interruptions in our services in the past due to service or network outages, periodic system upgrades and internal system failures. Similar interruptions may occur from time to time in the future. Because our revenue depends largely on the number of 18 Table of Contents users and the amount of minutes consumed by users, our business will suffer if we experience frequent or extended system interruptions or if our systems or services become unavailable. Our customers depend on the reliability of our services and we may lose customers if we fail to provide reliable services for even a single communication event. We maintain our primary data facility and hosting servers at our headquarters in Louisville, Colorado, and two secondary data facilities in the Denver, Colorado metropolitan area. Our operations depend on our ability to protect these facilities and our systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, water, telecommunications failure, vandalism, sabotage, terrorist attacks and similar unexpected events. In addition, a sudden and significant increase in traffic on our systems or infrastructure could strain the capacity of the software, hardware and systems that we use. This could lead to slower response times or system failures. The occurrence of any of the foregoing risks could cause service interruptions and, as a result, materially harm our reputation and negatively affect our revenue and our ability to maintain profitability. Our services are often used to share confidential and sensitive information and, as a result, if our security system is breached, our business and reputation could suffer. We must securely receive and transmit confidential information for our customers over public networks and maintain that information on internal systems. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation, and expose us to risk of loss or liability. If we fail to provide adequate security measures to protect the confidential information of our customers, our customers may refrain from using our services or potential customers may not choose to use our services, and as a result, our operating results would be harmed. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. In addition, our internal systems are accessible to a number of our employees. Although each of these employees is subject to a confidentiality agreement, we may be unable to prevent the misappropriation of this information. Our business may be harmed if our services do not work with the various hardware and software systems, including corporate security measures, used by our customers. We currently provide services to customers with various hardware and software systems, ranging from legacy to next-generation applications and networking equipment. If our services are unable to support these diverse platforms, and if we fail to modify our services to support new versions of these applications and equipment, our services may fail to gain broad market acceptance, which would cause our operating results to suffer. For example, usage of our Web Conferencing Pro services depends on computers being enabled with certain Java technology. There are new computers being shipped without Microsoft’s operating systems incorporating this Java technology. As such, our Web Conferencing Pro services will not work on these computers unless the user downloads the Java technology separately, which may be impracticable and expensive. Furthermore, because of bandwidth constraints on corporate intranets and concerns about security, our customers and potential customers may block reception of web services like ours within their corporate environments. In order for customers to use our services, customers and users may need to reconfigure their corporate intranets, security measures and firewalls. Widespread adoption of our technology and services depends on overcoming these obstacles. If we do not increase the capacity of our infrastructure in excess of customer demand, customers may experience service problems and choose not to use our services. The amount of conferencing events we host has increased significantly. We must continually increase our capacity consistent with our growth in usage. We generally utilize between 50% and 70% of our capacity based on average usage. To accommodate increased customer usage and rapidly expand our operations requires a significant increase in the capacity of our infrastructure. To increase capacity, we may need to order equipment with substantial development and manufacturing lead times, which can sometimes be several months or longer. If we fail to increase our capacity in a timely and efficient manner, customers may experience service problems, such as busy signals, improperly routed conferences, and interruptions in service. Service problems such as these would harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and decrease our revenue, and therefore harm our ability to maintain profitability. Conversely, if we overestimate our capacity needs, we will pay for more capacity than we actually use, resulting in increased costs without a corresponding increase in revenue, which would harm our operating results, particularly as usage is increasing at a greater rate than revenue due to pricing pressure. 19 Table of Contents We may pursue additional business relationships through acquisitions, joint ventures, or other investment prospects, which may not be successful, and we may not realize the benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, or other investment. We may pursue inorganic means to increase revenue. For example, in September 2005 we acquired certain assets of BCE Conferencing, Inc. We have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. There may also be risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience. Further, these potential acquisitions, joint ventures and investments entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. For example, these transactions may not be immediately accretive to our earnings, and we may not be able to successfully integrate a company’s operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. An acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial controls, and divert management’s attention away from our other business concerns. There may also be unanticipated costs associated with an acquisition that may harm our operating results and key personnel may decide not to work for us. These risks could harm our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, if we were to make any acquisitions, we could, for example: • issue equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • expend cash; • incur debt; • assume unknown or contingent liabilities; and • experience negative effects on our results of operations. Our failure to manage growth could cause increases in our operating costs, harm our ability to maintain profitability, and therefore, decrease the value of our stock. We may continue to expand our operations and infrastructure organically or through acquisitions. This expansion has placed in the past, and may place in the future, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and we may not effectively manage this growth. Expanding our business would require us to invest significant amounts of capital in our operations and resources, which would substantially increase our operating costs. As a result, our failure to manage our growth effectively could cause substantial increases in our operating costs without corresponding increases in our revenue, thereby harming our ability to maintain profitability. Also, our management may have to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing growth. In order to rapidly expand our business we may need to raise additional funds. Any future financing we require may not be available on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may not be able to grow, which could impact our ability to compete effectively. If we do not expand further internationally, our ability to attract and retain multi-national customers will be harmed and as a result our business and operating results may be harmed. We have attempted to expand into international markets and spent significant financial and managerial resources to do so. In particular, we formed a joint venture with @viso Limited, a European-based venture capital firm, to expand our operations to continental Europe and the United Kingdom. This joint venture failed and was recently liquidated and dissolved. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we expanded the capability of our Reservationless Conferencing service to offer multi-national customers international 800 access to our service through a supplier in certain countries. We have limited experience in international operations and may not be able to compete effectively in international markets. In addition, we face certain risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: • difficulties in establishing and maintaining distribution channels and partners for our services; • varying technology standards from country to country; 20 Table of Contents • uncertain protection of intellectual property rights; • inconsistent regulations and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; • linguistic and cultural differences; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • imposition of currency exchange controls; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, our expansion into international markets may require us to develop specific technology that will allow our current systems to work with international telephony systems. We may not develop this technology in a timely manner, in a way to prevent service disruptions or at all. Our Reservationless Conferencing service may become subject to traditional telecommunications carrier regulation by federal and state authorities, which would increase the cost of providing our services and may subject us to penalties. We believe our Reservationless Conferencing service is not subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) or any state public service commission because the services integrate traditional voice teleconferencing and added value Internet services. The FCC and state public service commissions, however, may require us to submit to traditional telecommunications carrier regulations for our Reservationless Conferencing service under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and various state laws or regulations as a provider of telecommunications services. For example, in March 2004, we received a letter from the FCC Investigations and Hearing Division of the Enforcement Bureau regarding filing requirements of telecommunications carriers. If the FCC or any state public service commission seeks to enforce any of these laws or regulations against us, we could be prohibited from providing the voice aspect of our Reservationless Conferencing service, which constitutes the vast majority of our revenue, until we have obtained various federal and state licenses and filed tariffs. We believe we would be able to obtain those licenses, although in some states, doing so could significantly delay our ability to provide services. We also would be required to comply with other aspects of federal and state laws and regulations. Subjecting our Reservationless Conferencing service to these laws and regulations would increase our operating costs, could require restructuring of those services to charge separately for the voice and Internet components, and would involve on-going reporting and other compliance obligations. We also might be subject to fines or forfeitures and civil or criminal penalties for non-compliance. We may be subject to assessment of state sales, federal excise and other taxes for the sale of our services, license of technology or provision of services, which we have not collected from our customers. We may have to pay past state sales, federal excise or other taxes that we have not collected from our customers. For example, we recently were audited by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Department of Revenue who claims that our Reservationless Conferencing service is subject to sales tax in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. We have formally protested this assessment. Because we do not currently collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our services, our estimated liability in the state of Massachusetts is $0.2 million, which we have accrued, and could increase based on the position taken by Massachusetts. Additionally, more states may claim that we are subject to an assessment of sales or other taxes, in which case our total liability may increase. Our business would be harmed if one or more states were to require us to pay sales or other taxes on past sales of services, particularly because we may be unable to go back to customers to collect sales or other taxes for past sales and may have to pay such taxes out of our own funds. In addition, we have not accrued for such past liabilities, such as state sales tax and federal excise tax in our financial statements, and if required to pay such liabilities, our financial performance would be harmed. 21 Table of Contents Our current stock compensation expense negatively impacts our earnings, and when we are required to report the fair value of employee stock options as an expense in conjunction with Financial Accounting Standards Board 123R – Share-based Payment, our earnings will be adversely affected, which may cause our stock price to decline. Under our current accounting practice, stock compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. As of December 31, 2005 we had approximately $1.0 million in deferred equity-based compensation expense. Effective January 1, 2006, we have been required to record compensation expense in the financial statements that we have not recorded in the past and is not reflected in our financial statements filed with this report, for stock issued to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the equity issued. In December 2005, our Board of Directors took action to accelerate out of the money options and modify our employee stock purchase plan to comply with SFAS 123(R) to eliminate a portion of future compensation expenses. Notwithstanding these changes, the adoption of SFAS 123(R)’s fair value method will impact our results of operations starting with the first quarter of 2006 and as such, our ability to maintain profitability may be negatively impacted. We disclose non-GAAP financial information. We prepare and release quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in the related earnings release and investor conference call. This non-GAAP financial information excludes certain non-cash expenses, consisting primarily of depreciation, the amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP financial information helps investors meaningfully evaluate the results of our operations. However, we urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, and our quarterly earnings releases and compare the GAAP financial information with the non-GAAP financial results disclosed in our quarterly earnings releases and investor calls. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, some of which have either only recently been adopted or are currently proposals subject to change. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. For example, we cannot assure that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot assure that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation and as such, our ability to maintain profitability may be negatively impacted. We are subject to risks associated with governmental regulation and legal uncertainties. It is likely that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted in the United States and other countries with respect to the Internet that might affect us. These laws may relate to areas such as: • changes in telecommunications regulations; • copyright and other intellectual property rights; • exporting technology • encryption; • personal privacy concerns, including the use of “cookies” and individual user information; • e-commerce liability; and • email, network and information security. 22 Table of Contents Changes in telecommunications regulations could substantially increase the costs of communicating on the Internet or over VoIP networks. This, in turn, could slow the growth in Internet use or VoIP networks and thereby decrease the demand for our services. Several telecommunications carriers are advocating that the Federal Communications Commission regulate the Internet and VoIP networks in the same manner as other telecommunications services by imposing access fees. Recent events suggest that the FCC may begin regulating the Internet and VoIP networks in such a way. In addition, we operate our services throughout the United States and state regulatory authorities may seek to regulate aspects of our services as telecommunication activities. Other countries and political organizations are likely to impose or favor more and different regulations than those that have been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for and costs associated with our services, and may affect the growth of the Internet or VoIP networks. Such laws or regulations may therefore harm our business. Our stock price is volatile and this volatility may depress our stock price, result in litigation or indicate that our goodwill is impaired, resulting in further declines to our stock price. The stock market in general and the stock price of our company in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. For example, between January 1, 2002 and December 31, 2005 our stock has traded as high as $6.30 and as low as $1.20 on the NASDAQ National Market. The volatility of our stock price can be due to factors such as, fluctuating operating results, significant purchases and sales of our stock, announcements by us or our competitors, changes in security analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may negatively impact our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Many companies that have experienced volatility in their stock prices have been targets for securities class action litigation. If we were subject to any such litigation, we could be required to expend substantial costs and resources which could harm our business. Additionally, one of the factors that we consider in determining a potential impairment of our goodwill is our stock market capitalization. If our stock price declines and remains depressed for an extended period of time, our reported goodwill could be materially adversely impaired which would require us to write down our goodwill, and this charge may cause our stock price to decline further. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 