ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact its earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with its loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington, and a continuing decline in the economies of our primary market areas of the south Puget Sound and Yakima Valley regions of Washington could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, the Puget Sound region has experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures. A series of large Puget Sound-based businesses have implemented substantial employee layoffs and scaled back plans for future growth. Additionally, acquisitions and consolidations have resulted in substantial employee layoffs, along with a significant increase in office space vacancies in downtown Seattle. The Yakima Valley has likewise seen increased unemployment and a continued decline in housing prices. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We offer different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses with an emphasis on real estate related industries and businesses in agricultural, healthcare, legal, and other professions. The types of commercial loans offered are business lines of credit, term equipment financing and term real estate loans. We also originate loans that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration (SBA) and are a “preferred lender” of the SBA. Commercial business lending 25 Table of Contents involves risks that are different from those associated with real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. In addition, as part of our commercial business lending activities, we originate agricultural loans. Payments on agricultural loans are typically dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government regulations. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Our income property loans, consisting of commercial and multi-family real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and multi-family real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial and multi-family real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and multi-family real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regards to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. If the Company’s estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, it may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss. 26 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in its loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of the Company’s business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in its loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience; • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and their underlying collateral or discounted cash flows; and • current macroeconomic factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our capital. For the year ended December 31, 2009 we recorded a provision of $19.4 million compared to $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies and credit losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and non-performing loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction and land development loans. In addition, slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in non-performing loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At December 31, 2009 our total non-performing loans had increased to $33.0 million or 4.3% of total loans compared to $3.4 million or 0.4% of total loans at December 31, 2008. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that it will continue to experience 27 Table of Contents higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, if a prolonged recession occurs, we expect that it could severely impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. We cannot accurately predict the effect of the national economic recession on our future results of operations or the market price of our stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic recession, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in its local markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long these recessionary conditions may exist, the economic downturn could continue to present risks for some time for the banking industry and our company. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio. The deterioration in the credit markets created market volatility and illiquidity, resulting in significant declines in the market values of a broad range of investment products. We continue to monitor our investment portfolio for deteriorating collateral values and other-than-temporary impairments. Any other than temporary impairments would adversely affect our operating results. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be adversely impacted. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. At December 31, 2009, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $13.0 million. Declines in our stock price or a prolonged weakness in the operating environment of the financial services industry may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and capital. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. The FDIC has increased deposit insurance premiums to restore and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund, which has increased our costs. During the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC increased deposit insurance assessment rates generally and imposed a special assessment of five basis points on each insured institution’s total assets less Tier 1 capital. This 28 Table of Contents special assessment was calculated based on the insured institution’s assets at June 30, 2009, and was collected on September 30, 2009. Based on the assets of the Company’s subsidiary banks as of June 30, 2009 subject to the FDIC assessment, the special assessments on the Company’s subsidiary banks totaled approximately $437,000. This special assessment is in addition to the regular quarterly risk-based assessment. In addition, during fourth quarter of 2009, the FDIC approved a final rule requiring institutions to prepay approximately three years of estimated insurance assessments. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had $5.0 million in prepaid FDIC assessments. The FDIC deposit insurance fund may suffer additional losses in the future due to bank failures, which may require us to pay additional deposit insurance premiums in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Additional deposit insurance premiums will increase our costs and, if substantial, may materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may grow through future acquisitions, which could, in some circumstances, adversely affect our profitability measures. We may engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, which may involve the issuance of additional common stock, including FDIC-assisted transactions. Any such acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy that could adversely impact our profitability. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a particular institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated costs of incorporating acquired businesses into our company, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurance as to the extent to which we can continue to grow through acquisitions. Decreased volumes and lower gains on sales and brokering of mortgage loans sold could adversely impact net income. We originate and sell mortgage loans as well as broker mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates affect demand for the Company’s loan products and the revenue realized on the sale of loans. A decrease in the volume of loans sold/brokered can decrease our revenues and net income. The tightening of available liquidity could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle or other wholesale funding sources. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point we may need to raise additional capital to support continued internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot 29 Table of Contents make assurances of our ability to raise additional capital if needed, or if the terms will be acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, including rules and policies applicable to participants in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or laws could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program have been significantly revised and supplemented since the inception of that program, and continue to evolve. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority generally may have a negative impact, which may be material, on our results of operations and financial condition. Continued deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses of our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. At December 31, 2009, we owned $3.6 million of stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, or FHLB. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to impairment testing. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the “FHFA”), its primary regulator, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. We may engage in FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquiror to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to 30 Table of Contents our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Heritage. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The 138,037 shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 1.2% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to February 15, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum (approximately $1.2 million annually) to 9.0% per annum (approximately $2.2 million annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. There may be future sales of additional common stock or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market after this offering or from the perception that such sales could occur. Our board of directors is authorized generally to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, the board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. If we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 31 Table of Contents 