ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference herein. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, and also adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FUNDING OR OBTAIN FUNDING ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS BECAUSE OF THE DETERIORATION OF THE CREDIT AND CAPITAL MARKETS. THIS MAY HINDER OR PREVENT US FROM MEETING OUR FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE CURRENT FINANCIAL AND CREDIT MARKET ENVIRONMENT MAY LIMIT THE FUTURE LEVEL OF EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION INVESTMENT BY OUR CUSTOMERS. Recent events experienced in the global financial and credit markets have had a significant impact on the availability of credit and the overall costs at which funds can be obtained. These factors coupled with the significant reduction in commodity prices, which has contributed to lower cash flow generation for a number of exploration and production companies, could contribute to a material decline in our customers’ spending levels. The reduction in the level of future investment, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS OF OUR CUSTOMERS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, our customers may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, if customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for services may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ASSET IMPAIRMENTS. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment for impairment. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our equipment if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. The recent decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If we are forced to write down the value of our equipment, these noncash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussion of “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” included in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” BECAUSE WE HAVE NO PLANS TO PAY ANY DIVIDENDS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, INVESTORS MUST LOOK SOLELY TO STOCK APPRECIATION FOR A RETURN ON THEIR INVESTMENT IN US. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO DELAYS RELATED TO OBTAINING LAND ACCESS RIGHTS OF WAY FROM THIRD PARTIES WHICH COULD AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to obtain timely right of way usage from both public and private land and/or mineral owners. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights of way as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas, and landowners have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property. Delays associated with obtaining such rights of way could negatively affect our results. INDUSTRY VOLATILITY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The demand for our services depends on the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for developmental construction and these expenditures are critical to our operations. The levels of such capital expenditures are influenced by the following factors: • oil and gas prices and industry perceptions of future price levels and demand; • the cost of exploring for, producing and developing oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate capital; • the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States; • the availability of current geophysical data; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • local and international political and economic conditions; and • government regulations. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry has a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, prices of oil and gas, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated substantially. This has, in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations. OUR GROWTH AND GROWTH STRATEGY INVOLVES RISKS. We have grown over the last several years through internal growth and acquisitions of other companies. It will be important for our future success to manage our growth and this will require increased responsibility for management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • the lack of sufficient executive-level personnel; • the successful integration of the operations and management teams from our recent acquisitions; • increased levels of debt and administrative burdens; and • increased logistical problems of large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements THE DANGERS INHERENT IN OUR OPERATIONS AND THE POTENTIAL LIMITS ON INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN RISKS COULD EXPOSE US TO POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY COSTS. Our operations, and to a significant degree our seismic operations, are subject to risks or injury to personnel and loss of equipment. Our crews often conduct operations in extreme weather, in difficult terrain that is not easily accessible, and under other hazardous conditions. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection. However, we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY. We compete with several other providers of seismic drilling, permitting, survey and environmental services. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. Our revenues and earnings may be affected by the following factors: • changes in competitive prices and availability of trained personnel; • fluctuations in the level of activity and major markets; • general economic conditions; and • governmental regulation. Additionally, in certain geographical areas, some of our competitors operate more crews than we do and may have substantially greater financial and other resources. These operators could enjoy an advantage over us if the competitive environment for contract awards shifts to one characterized principally by intense price competition. SEASONALITY AND ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS IN THE REGIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are directly affected by the weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico. Due to seasonal differences in weather patterns, we may operate more days in the spring, summer and fall periods and less in the winter months. The seasonality of oil and gas industry activity in the Gulf Coast region also affects our operations. Due to exposure to weather, we generally experience higher drilling activity in the spring, summer and fall months with the lowest activity in winter months, especially with respect to our operations in the mountainous regions of the western United States. The rainy weather, hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast throughout the year may also affect our operations. As a result, full-year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends on, among other things, the continued active participation of our executive officers and certain of our other key operating personnel. Our officers and personnel have extensive experience in the domestic and international oilfield services industry. The loss of the services of any one of these persons could impact adversely our ability to implement our expansion strategy. WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our seismic and environmental operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and cease and desist orders. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, operations in wetlands, the handling of explosives and hazardous and 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements non-hazardous waste. Although our cost of compliance with such laws has to date been immaterial, such laws frequently change. Accordingly, it is impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws on our future operations. We are also required by various governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates. To date, we believe that we possess all permits, licenses and certificates material to the operation of our business. The loss of any of the licenses required for our operation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on demand for our services from the oil and gas industry, and this demand may be affected by changing tax laws and oil and gas regulations. As a result, the adoption of laws that curtail oil and gas production in our areas of operation may adversely affect us. We cannot determine to what extent our operations may be affected by any new regulations or changes in existing regulations. ONE STOCKHOLDER HAS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR AFFAIRS. Dennis R. Sciotto beneficially owns approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Sciotto represents and controls The Dennis R. Sciotto Family Trust and was appointed to the Board of Directors in 2005. As a result, Mr. Sciotto has the ability to substantially influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. This may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation. FUTURE TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES COULD IMPAIR OPERATING ASSETS OR REQUIRE SUBSTANTIAL UNBUDGETED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. We compete in providing services in a capital intensive business. The development of seismic data acquisition and processing equipment has been characterized by rapid technological advancements in recent years, and this trend may continue. Manufacturers of seismic equipment may develop new systems that have competitive advantages over systems now in use that could render our current equipment obsolete or require us to make significant unplanned capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. Under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain necessary financing on favorable terms. OUR SEISMIC SERVICES OPERATIONS DEPEND ON A FEW SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of geophysical companies. Our inability to continue to perform services for a number of our large existing customers, if not offset by sales to new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. For example, our largest customers (those which individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue in a given year) collectively accounted for 32% (two customers), 11% (one customer), and 21% (two customers) of revenue for fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. OUR BACKLOG MAY NOT BE TIMELY CONVERTED INTO REVENUE IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD. Our backlog represents those seismic drilling and survey projects for which a customer has hired us and has scheduled a start date for the project. Backlog levels vary during the year depending on weather, the timing of the completion of certain contracts and when we are awarded new contracts. Projects currently included in our backlog, at the option of the customer, are subject to termination or delay without penalty, which could substantially reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and consequently, the conversion of that backlog into revenue. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements UNFAVORABLE RESULTS OF LITIGATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Management currently believes that resolving any of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. The litigation and claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. IF WE BREACH ANY OF THE MATERIAL FINANCIAL COVENANTS UNDER OUR VARIOUS INDEBTEDNESS, OR IF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT IS DECLARED WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUCH INDEBTEDNESS, OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS COULD BE ACCELERATED. If we breach any of the material financial covenants under our various indebtedness, or if an event of default is declared with respect to any such indebtedness, our substantial debt service obligations could be accelerated. In the event of any such simultaneous acceleration, we would not be able to repay all of the indebtedness. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by our shareholders and by us could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. THE HIGH FIXED COSTS OF OUR OPERATIONS COULD RESULT IN OPERATING LOSSES. Our business has high fixed costs. As a result, any significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could adversely affect our results of operations. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. In the future, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting may result in errors or omissions in our periodic filings which may require us to amend our prior filings. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. CERTAIN OF OUR FACILITIES COULD BE DAMAGED BY HURRICANES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005 and 2008, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced operations; costs associated with resuming operations; reduced demand for our services from customers that were similarly 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 