Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related To Recent Development Our recent acquisition of WiderThan could expose us to new risks, disrupt our business, and adversely impact our results of operations. On November 27, 2006, we announced the final results of our tender offer for WiderThan Co., Ltd. pursuant to which we acquired approximately 99.7% of the outstanding common shares and American Depository Shares of WiderThan. The integration of our acquisition of WiderThan may divert the attention of management and other key personnel from other core business operations, which could adversely impact our financial performance in the near term. Moreover, the integration of WiderThan’s operations into the Company will require expansions to our system of internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to successfully operate and integrate WiderThan could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by developments affecting the South Korean economy amid increased tensions with North Korea. With the acquisition of WiderThan, we generate a material portion of our revenue from operations in the Republic of Korea (South Korea). On a consolidated basis, in 2006 we derived 5% of our revenue from our operations in South Korea and expect that we will generate a significant portion of our revenue from South Korea in 2007. Operating in this market subjects us to risks that were not previously relevant to us, including risks associated with the general state of the economy in South Korea and the potential instability of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea). Relations between South Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of South Korea and North Korea. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Consumer Products and Services Business Future growth of our online consumer businesses may not keep pace with recently realized growth rates; any slowdown in growth would negatively impact our overall operating results. Our Consumer Products and Services revenue and subscriber and user base have grown substantially in the past two years. A slowdown in the growth of our consumer businesses would have a negative impact on our total revenue and consolidated operating results. Moreover, these consumer businesses compete in new and rapidly evolving markets and face substantial competitive threats. Our prospects for future growth in these businesses must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in new and fiercely competitive markets. We are experiencing greater fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality than at any time in our past, and we expect this trend to continue. We are increasingly experiencing seasonality in our business, particularly with respect to the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our consumer businesses, which include advertising revenue, make up a large percentage of our revenue, and the fourth quarter has traditionally been the seasonally strongest quarter for internet advertising. In addition, as we have begun partnering more closely with device manufacturers for our 14 Table of Contents consumer music services, we expect sales of these devices to follow typical consumer buying patterns with a majority of consumer electronics being sold in the fourth quarter. Finally, WiderThan’s historical business has seen a concentration of system sales, deployments, and consulting revenue in the fourth quarter. These factors may result in increasing seasonality in our business and we cannot predict with accuracy how these factors will impact our quarterly financial results. The success of our subscription services businesses depends upon our ability to add new subscribers and minimize subscriber churn. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by subscriber churn. Internet subscription businesses are a relatively new media delivery model and we cannot predict with accuracy our long-term ability to retain subscribers or add new subscribers. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive content generally or as compared to competitive service offerings (including Internet piracy), or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. In recent periods, we have seen an increase in the number of gross customer cancellations of our subscription services due in part to an increasingly large subscriber base. Our digital content subscription business, and our online music services in particular, depend on our continuing ability to license compelling content on commercially reasonable terms. We must continue to obtain compelling digital media content for our video, music, and games services in order to maintain and increase usage, subscription service revenue, and overall customer satisfaction for these products. In some cases, we pay substantial fees to obtain premium content. For instance, we pay substantial royalty fees to music labels to license content. Moreover, our online music service offerings depend on music licenses from the major music labels and publishers, and the failure of any such parties to renew these licenses under terms that are acceptable to us would harm our ability to offer successful music subscription services and therefore our operating results. If we cannot obtain premium digital content for any of our digital content subscription services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our business will be harmed. Music publishing royalty rates for music subscription services are not yet fully established; a determination of high royalty rates could negatively impact our operating results. Publishing royalty rates associated with music subscription services in the U.S. and abroad are not fully established. Public performance licenses are negotiated individually, and we have not yet agreed to rates with all of the performing rights societies for all of our music subscription service activities. We may be required to pay a rate that is higher than we expect, as the issue was recently submitted to a “Rate Court” by The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) for judicial determination. We have a license agreement with the Harry Fox Agency, an agency that represents music publishers, to reproduce musical compositions as required in the creation and delivery of on-demand streams and tethered downloads, but this license agreement does not include a rate. The license agreement anticipates industry-wide agreement on rates, or, if no industry-wide agreement can be reached, determination by a copyright royalty board (CARB), an administrative judicial proceeding supervised by the U.S. Copyright Office. If the rates agreed to or determined by a CARB or by Congress are higher than we expect, this expense could negatively impact our operating results. The publishing rates associated with our international music streaming services are also not yet determined and may he higher than our current estimates. Our consumer businesses face substantial competitive challenges that may prevent us from being successful in those businesses. Music. Our online music services face significant competition from traditional offline music distribution competitors and from other online digital music services, as well as piracy. Some of these competing online services have spent substantial amounts on marketing and have received significant media attention, including Apple’s iTunes music download service, which it markets closely with its extremely popular iPod line of portable digital audio players. Microsoft has also begun offering premium music services in conjunction with 15 Table of Contents its Windows Media Player and also now markets a portable music player and related download software and music service called Zune. We also expect increasing competition from online retailers such as Amazon.com. Our current music service offerings may not be able to compete effectively in this highly competitive market. Our online music services also face significant competition from “free” peer-to-peer services which allow consumers to directly access an expansive array of free content without securing licenses from content providers. Enforcement efforts have not effectively shut down these services and there can be no assurance that these services will ever be shut down. The ongoing presence of these “free” services substantially impairs the marketability of legitimate services like ours. Media Software and Services. Our media software and services (primarily our SuperPass subscription service) face competition from existing competitive alternatives and other free emerging services and technologies, such as user generated content services like YouTube and Google Video. Content owners are increasingly marketing their content on their own websites rather than licensing to other distributors such as us. We face competition in these markets from traditional media outlets such as television, radio, CDs, DVDs, videocassettes and others. We also face competition from emerging Internet media sources and established companies entering into the Internet media content market, including Time Warner’s AOL subsidiary, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo! and broadband ISPs. We expect this competition to become more intense as the market and business models for Internet video content mature and more competitors enter these new markets. Competing services may be able to obtain better or more favorable access to compelling video content than us, may develop better offerings than us and may be able to leverage other assets to promote their offerings successfully. Games. Our RealArcade, GameHouse, and Zylom branded services compete with other online distributors of downloadable casual PC games. Some of these distributors have high volume distribution channels and greater financial resources than we do, including Yahoo! Games, MSN Gamezone, Pogo.com, and Shockwave. We expect competition to intensify in this market from these and other competitors and no assurance can be made that we will be able to continue to grow our revenue. Our GameHouse, Zylom, and Mr. Goodliving content development studios compete with other developers and publishers of downloadable PC and mobile games. Our development studios compete primarily with other developers of downloadable and mobile casual PC games and must continue to develop popular and high-quality game titles to maintain its competitive position and help maintain the growth of our games business. We may not be successful in maintaining and growing our distribution of digital media products. We cannot predict whether consumers will continue to download and use our digital media products consistent with past usage, especially in light of the fact that Microsoft bundles its competing Windows Media Player with its Windows operating system. Our inability to maintain continued high volume distribution of our digital media products could hold back the growth and development of related revenue streams from these market segments, including the distribution of third-party products and therefore could harm our business and our prospects. The success of our music services depend, in part, on interoperability with our customer’s music playback hardware. In order for our digital music services to continue to grow we must design services that interoperate effectively with a variety of hardware products, including portable digital audio players, mobile handsets, home stereos and PCs. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these products and with software manufacturers that create the operating systems for such hardware devices to achieve our objectives. To date, Apple has not agreed to design its popular iPod line of portable digital audio players to function with our music services. If we cannot successfully design our service to interoperate with the music playback devices that our customers own our business will be harmed. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Technology Products and Solutions Business Our traditional system software business has been negatively impacted by the effects of our competitors and our recent settlement agreement with Microsoft may not improve sales of our system software products. We believe that our traditional system software sales have been negatively impacted primarily by the competitive effects of Microsoft, which markets and often bundles its competing technology with its market leading operating systems and server software. In December 2003, we filed suit against Microsoft in U.S. District Court to redress what we believed were illegal, anticompetitive practices by Microsoft. In October 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with Microsoft regarding these claims and we also entered into two commercial agreements related to our digital music and casual games businesses. Although the settlement agreement contains a substantial cash payment to us and a series of technology agreements between the two companies, Microsoft will continue to be an aggressive competitor with our traditional systems software business. We cannot be sure whether the portions of the settlement agreement designed to limit Microsoft’s ability to leverage its market power will be effective and we cannot predict when, or if, we will experience increased demand for our system software products. A majority of the revenue that we generate in Korea is dependent upon our relationship with SK Telecom, the largest wireless carrier in Korea; any deterioration of this relationship could materially harm our business. We offer our mobile entertainment services to consumers in Korea through SK Telecom, the largest wireless carrier in Korea. In the near term, we expect that we will continue to generate a material portion of our total revenue through SK Telecom. If SK Telecom fails to market or distribute our applications or terminates its business contracts with us, or if our relationship with SK Telecom deteriorates in any significant way, we may be unable to replace the affected business arrangements with acceptable alternatives, which could have a material negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Also, if we are unable to continue our service development in conjunction with SK Telecom, our ability to develop, test, and introduce new services will be materially harmed. Contracts with our carrier customers subject us to significant risks that could negatively impact our revenue from application services. With the acquisition of WiderThan, we derive a material portion of our revenue from carrier application services. Our carrier application services contracts provide for revenue sharing arrangements but we have little control over the pricing decisions of our carrier customers. Furthermore, most of these contracts do not provide for guaranteed minimum payments or usage levels. Moreover, since most of our carrier customer contracts are non-exclusive, it is possible that our wireless carriers could purchase similar application services from third parties, and cease to use our services in the future. As a result, our revenue derived under these agreements may be substantially reduced depending on the pricing and usage decisions of our carrier customers. In addition, none of our carrier application services contracts obligates our carrier customers to market or distribute any of our applications. As a result, revenues related to our application services are, to a large extent, dependent upon the marketing and promotion activities of our carrier customers. The loss of carrier customers or reduction in marketing or promotion of our applications would likely result in the loss of future revenues from our carrier application services. Finally, many of our carrier contracts are short term and allow for early termination by the carrier with or without cause. These contracts are therefore subject to renegotiation of pricing or other key terms that could be adverse to our interests, and leave us vulnerable to non-renewal by the carriers. If our carrier contracts are 17 Table of Contents terminated, not renewed, or renegotiated in a manner less favorable to us, our application services revenue would be negatively impacted. Our carrier customers could begin developing some or all of our carrier applications services on their own, which could result in the loss of future revenues. While, to date, most of our carrier customers do not offer internally-developed application services that compete with ours, if our carrier customers begin developing these application services internally, we could be forced to lower our prices or increase the amount of service we provide in order to maintain our business with those carrier customers. This could result in the loss of future revenues from our carrier application services or the reduction of margins related to such revenues. The mobile entertainment market is highly competitive. The market for mobile entertainment services, including ringback tone solutions, is highly competitive. Current and potential future competitors include major media companies, Internet portal companies, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play wireless entertainment publishers. In connection with music-on-demand in particular, we may in the future compete with companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Napster, and Yahoo! which currently provide music-on-demand services for online or other non-mobile platforms. In addition, the major music labels may demand more aggressive revenue sharing arrangements or seek an alternative business model less favorable to us. Increased competition has in the past resulted in pricing pressure, forcing us to lower the selling price of our services. If we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business. Our Helix open source initiative is subject to risks associated with open source technology. Although we have invested substantial resources in the development of the underlying technology within our Helix DNA Platform and the Helix Community process, the market and industry may not accept these technologies and, therefore, we may not derive royalty or support revenue from them. Moreover, the introduction of the Helix DNA Platform open source and community source licensing schemes may adversely affect sales of our commercial system software products to mobile operators, broadband providers, corporations, government agencies, educational institutions and other business and non-business organizations. Our patents may not improve our business prospects. Our primary strategy with regard to patents is to use our patent portfolio to increase licensing and usage of our Helix products. We do not know whether our patents will ultimately be deemed enforceable, valid, or infringed. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether our patent strategy will be successful or will improve our financial results. Moreover, we may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of our patents. Any such litigation could be costly and may not achieve the desired results. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which may contribute to fluctuations in our stock price. As a result of the rapidly changing markets in which we compete, our operating results may fluctuate from period-to-period. In past periods, our operating results have been affected by personnel reductions and related charges, charges relating to losses on excess office facilities, and impairment charges for certain of our equity investments. Our operating results may be adversely affected by similar or other charges or events in future periods, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Certain of our expense decisions (for example, research and development and sales and marketing efforts) are based on predictions regarding business and the markets in which we compete. To the extent that these predictions prove inaccurate, our revenue may not be sufficient to offset these expenditures, and our operating results may be harmed. In 18 Table of Contents addition, we recently acquired the operations of WiderThan. We have limited experience managing these assets which may make it more difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. Our settlement agreement with Microsoft may not improve our business prospects. In October 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with Microsoft regarding claims of monopolistic activity which we had made against them. In connection with the settlement, we also entered into two commercial agreements with Microsoft related to our digital music and casual games businesses. The settlement agreement consists of a series of substantial cash payments to us and a series of technology agreements between the two companies. We cannot be sure that we will be able to apply the proceeds of the settlement in a way that will improve our operating results or otherwise increase the value of our shareholders’ investments in our stock. Our products and services must compete with the products and services of strong or dominant competitors. Our software and services must compete with strong existing competitors and new competitors that may enter with competitive new products, services, and technologies. These market conditions have in the past resulted in, and could likely continue to result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the trading price of our stock: • reduced prices, revenue and margins; • increased expenses in responding to competitors; • loss of current and potential customers, market share and market power; • lengthened sales cycles; • degradation of our stature and reputation in the market; • changes in our business and distribution and marketing strategies; • changes to our products, services, technology, licenses and business practices, and other disruption of our operations; • strained relationships with partners; and • pressure to prematurely release products or product enhancements. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater resources than we do. Our competitors across the breadth of our product lines include a number of large and powerful companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, and Yahoo!. Failure to develop and introduce new products and services that achieve market acceptance could result in a loss of market opportunities and negatively affect our operating results. The process of developing new, and enhancing existing, products and services is complex, costly and uncertain. Our business depends on providing products and services that are attractive to subscribers and consumers, which, in part, is subject to unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences and competing products and services. Any failure by us to timely respond to or accurately anticipate consumers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends could significantly harm our current market share or result in the loss of market opportunities. In addition, we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect consumer demand for our products and services. Therefore, our operating results could be negatively impacted. Microsoft is one of our strongest competitors, and employs highly aggressive tactics against us. Microsoft is one of our principal competitors in the development and distribution of digital media and media distribution technology. Microsoft’s market power in related markets such as personal computer 19 Table of Contents operating systems, office software suites and web browser software gives it unique advantages in the digital media markets. Despite the settlement of our antitrust litigation with Microsoft, we expect that Microsoft will continue to compete vigorously in the digital media markets in the future. Microsoft’s dominant position in certain parts of the computer and software markets, and its aggressive activities have had, and in the future will likely continue to have, adverse effects on our business and operating results. If our products are not able to support the most popular digital media formats, our business will be substantially impaired. We may not be able to license technologies, like codecs or digital rights management technology, that obtain widespread consumer and developer use, which would harm consumer and developer acceptance of our products and services. In addition, our codecs and formats may not continue to be in demand or as desirable as other third-party codecs and formats, including codecs and formats created by Microsoft or industry standard formats created by MPEG. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel, but may be unable to attract and retain them, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees, particularly Robert Glaser, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Glaser or other key executive officers or employees could harm our business. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled management, technical, and sales personnel, both in our domestic operations and as we expand internationally. Qualified individuals are in high demand and competition for such qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may incur significant costs to retain or attract them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the key personnel necessary to sustain our business or support future growth. Our industry is experiencing consolidation that may cause us to lose key relationships and intensify competition. The Internet and media distribution industries are undergoing substantial change, which has resulted in increasing consolidation and formation of strategic relationships. Acquisitions or other consolidating transactions could harm us in a number of ways, including the loss of customers if competitors or users of competing technologies consolidate with our current or potential customers, or our current competitors become stronger, or new competitors emerge from consolidations. Any of these events could put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could cause us to lose customers, revenue and market share. Consolidation in our industry, or in related industries such as broadband carriers, could force us to expend greater resources to meet new or additional competitive threats, which could also harm our operating results. Industry consolidation could also cause the loss of strategic relationships if our strategic partners are acquired by or enter into relationships with a competitor. Because we rely on strategic relationships with third parties, including relationships providing for content acquisition and distribution of our products, the loss of current strategic relationships (due to industry consolidation or otherwise), the inability to find other strategic partners, our failure to effectively manage these relationships or the failure of our existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results could harm our business. Acquisitions involve costs and risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired technologies and businesses in the past, including as recently as November 2006, and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. The failure to adequately manage the costs and address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by acquisitions of technology and businesses could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the benefits of the acquisitions. 20 Table of Contents Acquisition-related costs and financial risks related to completed and potential future acquisitions may harm our financial position, reported operating results, or stock price. Previous acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased technology and amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets, which are reflected in our operating expenses. New acquisitions and any potential future impairment of the value of purchased assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. Acquisitions also involve operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from an acquisition. These operational risks include: • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems, and/or personnel of the acquired company; • retaining key management or employees of the acquired company; • entrance into unfamiliar markets, industry segments, or types of businesses; • operating and integrating acquired businesses in remote locations; • integrating and managing businesses based in countries in which we have little or no prior experience; • impairment of relationships with employees, affiliates, advertisers or content providers of our business or acquired business; and • assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims. Our strategic investments may not be successful and we may have to recognize expenses in our income statement in connection with these investments. We have made, and in the future we may continue to make, strategic investments in other companies, including joint ventures. These investments often involve immature and unproven businesses and technologies and involve a high degree of risk. We could lose the entire amount of our investment. No assurance can be made that we will realize the anticipated benefits from any of our strategic investment. We need to develop relationships and technical standards with manufacturers of non-PC media and communication devices to grow our business. Access to the Internet through devices other than a personal computer (PC), such as personal digital assistants, cellular phones, television set-top devices, game consoles, Internet appliances and portable music and games devices has increased dramatically and is expected to continue to increase. If a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers do not license and incorporate our technology into their devices, we may fail to capitalize on the opportunity to deliver digital media to non-PC devices which could harm our business prospects. If we do not successfully make our products and technologies compatible with emerging standards and the most popular devices used to access digital media, we may miss market opportunities and our business and results will suffer. Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks fail, become unavailable, unsecured or perform poorly so that current or potential users do not have adequate access to our products, services and websites. Our ability to provide our products and services to our customers and operate our business depends on the continued operation of our information systems and networks. A significant or repeated reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could harm our ability to conduct our business, and harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain users, customers, advertisers and content providers. We have on occasion experienced system errors and failures that caused interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time. Problems with our systems and networks could result from our failure to adequately maintain and enhance these systems and networks, 21 Table of Contents natural disasters and similar events, power failures, HVAC failures, intentional actions to disrupt our systems and networks and many other causes. The vulnerability of a large portion of our computer and communications infrastructure is enhanced because much of it is located at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake, flood, and volcanic events. Many of our services do not currently have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Our network is subject to security risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Online commerce and communications depend on the ability to transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit and store such information and data securely, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. We also may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. Any successful attack or breach of our security could hurt consumer demand for our products and services, expose us to consumer class action lawsuits, and harm our business. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. A key part of our strategy is to develop localized products and services in international markets through subsidiaries, branch offices and joint ventures, if we do not successfully implement this strategy, we may not recoup our international investments and we may fail to develop or maintain worldwide market share. In addition, our recent acquisitions of WiderThan, Zylom, and Mr. Goodliving have increased our revenue from our international operations. Our international operations involve risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language, and cultural differences, different or conflicting laws and regulations, taxes, and exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could harm operating results and financial condition. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. As part of our international expansion strategy, we intend to grow our business in The People’s Republic of China (PRC). PRC government regulates our business in PRC through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) the scope of foreign investment in the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, (ii) Internet content and (iii) the sale of certain media products. In order to meet PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, our business in PRC is operated through a PRC subsidiary which acts in cooperation with PRC companies owned by nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although we believe this structure complies with existing PRC laws, it involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. If any of our PRC entities were found to be in violation of existing or future PRC laws or regulations or if interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked or be forced to shut down entirely. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights and may face risks associated with third-party claims relating to our intellectual property. Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology, including both internally developed technology, and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. As disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution, and online businesses are common and likely to arise in the future, we may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary 22 Table of Contents rights. Any such litigation would likely be costly, distract our management, and the existence and/or outcome of any such litigation could harm our business. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, any of the following would likely reduce the value of our intellectual property: • our applications for patents and trademarks relating to our business may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; • our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, competitive with, or superior to those we develop; or • another party may obtain a blocking patent, thus requiring us to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our technology may infringe the third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. Currently we are investigating or litigating a variety of such pending claims, some of which are described in Part I of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with the data collection capabilities of our products and services. Many of our products are interactive Internet applications that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information to our servers. Many of the services we provide also require that a user provide certain information to us. We have an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy and existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation, and harm our business. We account for employee stock options using the fair value method, which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. On January 1, 2006, we adopted the provisions of, and started accounting for stock-based compensation in accordance with, the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123R — revised 2004, Share Based Payment, which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of stock options and other stock-based compensation. We are required to record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method as described in SFAS 123R, which results in the recognition of significant and ongoing accounting charges, for which we recorded an expense of $18.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2006, in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. Stock options are also a key part of the compensation packages that we offer our employees. If we are forced to curtail our broad-based option program due to these additional charges, it may become more difficult for us to attract and retain employees. We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. Currently we do not collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology, or provision of services in states and countries other than those in which we have offices or employees. Our business would be harmed if one or more states or any foreign country were to require us to collect sales or other taxes from past sales or income related to products, licenses of technology, or provision of services. 23 Table of Contents Effective July 1, 2003, we began collecting Value Added Tax, or VAT, on sales of “electronically supplied services” provided to European Union residents, including software products, games, data, publications, music, video and fee-based broadcasting services. There can be no assurance that the European Union will not make further modifications to the VAT collection scheme, the effects of which could require significant enhancements to our systems and increase the cost of selling our products and services into the European Union. The collection and remittance of VAT subjects us to additional currency fluctuation risks. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, or ITFA, which Congress extended until November 2007, among other things, imposed a moratorium on discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. We may be subject to additional income tax assessments. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, income taxes payable, and net deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical financial statements. An audit or litigation can result in significant additional income taxes payable in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We donate a portion of our net income to charity. In periods where we achieve profitability, we intend to donate 5% of our annual net income to charitable organizations, which would reduce our net income for those periods. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately one third of our stock, which gives them significant control over certain major decisions on which our shareholders may vote, may discourage an acquisition of us, and any significant sales of stock by our officers and directors could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own more than one third of our common stock. Robert Glaser, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns the majority of that stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of RealNetworks, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 24 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Washington law could discourage our acquisition by a third-party. Our articles of incorporation provide for a strategic transaction committee of the board of directors. Without the prior approval of this committee, and subject to certain limited exceptions, the board of directors does not have the authority to: • adopt a plan of merger; • authorize the sale, lease, exchange or mortgage of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of our assets prior to the transaction or on which our long-term business strategy is substantially dependent; • authorize our voluntary dissolution; or • take any action that has the effect of any of the above. RealNetworks has also entered into an agreement providing Mr. Glaser with certain contractual rights relating to the enforcement of our charter documents and Mr. Glaser’s roles and authority within RealNetworks. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides that shares of our common stock have associated preferred stock purchase rights. The exercise of these rights would make the acquisition of RealNetworks by a third-party more expensive to that party and has the effect of discouraging third parties from acquiring RealNetworks without the approval of our board of directors, which has the power to redeem these rights and prevent their exercise. Washington law imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The foregoing provisions of our charter documents, shareholder rights plan, our agreement with Mr. Glaser, our zero coupon convertible subordinated notes and Washington law, as well as our charter provisions that provide for a classified board of directors and the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions may therefore have the effect of limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We are exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The requirements and processes associated with Section 404 are relatively new and still evolving and we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken will be sufficient to meet the Section 404 requirements as changes occur to the guidance and our reporting environment or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate controls over financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the costs associated with such measures will not exceed our estimates, which could impact our overall level of profitability. Any failure to meet the Section 404 requirements or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties or unanticipated costs encountered in their implementation, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or could harm our financial results, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 25 Table of Contents Certain material weaknesses in internal controls of WiderThan were identified as of December 31, 2005; if we fail to remediate and maintain an effective system of internal controls at WiderThan we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or reduce our ability to prevent or detect fraud, and investor confidence may be affected. In connection with the audit of WiderThan’s 2005 financial statements, the management of WiderThan identified certain material weaknesses, as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2, as of December 31, 2005, as follows: • WiderThan did not retain accounting staff with sufficient depth and skill in the application of U.S. GAAP commensurate with the reporting requirements of a U.S. registrant; • WiderThan did not have effective controls over establishing and maintaining accounting policies related to revenue recognition; and • WiderThan did not maintain effective controls, including monitoring, over the financial close and reporting process. Specifically, WiderThan relied heavily on the use of spreadsheet programs during the financial close process and did not have adequately designed controls to ensure the completeness, accuracy, and restricted access to such spreadsheets. In making its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 management has excluded WiderThan, as permitted by the SEC, because it was acquired on October 31, 2006. The assets and net revenue of WiderThan as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were $431.7 million and $26.7 million, respectively, representing 33% and 7%, respectively, of our consolidated assets and net revenue as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. We are in the process of integrating the finance operations of WiderThan into our finance department; however, there is no certainty that the identified material weaknesses will be remediated in a timely manner or controls will be implemented to prevent a material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the costs associated with such measures will not exceed our estimates, which could impact our overall level of profitability. Any failure to remediate these material weaknesses could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or could harm our financial results. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2006, the price of our common stock ranged from $7.20 to $12.08 per share. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates, recommendations by securities analysts, changes in the competitive environment, as well as any of the other risk factors described above. Financial forecasting of our operating results will be difficult because of the changing nature of our products and business, and our actual results may differ from forecasts. As a result of the dynamic markets in which we compete, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results and metrics. Our inability or the inability of the financial community to accurately forecast our operating results could result in our reported net income (loss) in a given quarter to differ from expectations, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 