Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Consumer Products and Services Business Our online consumer businesses have grown substantially in recent periods and these businesses compete in rapidly evolving markets, which makes their prospects difficult to evaluate. Our Consumer Products and Services segment in the fourth quarter of 2005 represented approximately 86% of our total revenue. Despite the substantial impact of these consumer businesses on our financial results, we are competing in new and rapidly evolving markets and face substantial competitive threats. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by businesses in new and fiercely competitive markets. Our Consumer Products and Services revenue and subscriber and user base have grown substantially in the past two years and it is unlikely that we will be able to sustain our recent growth rates. Our online consumer businesses have generally lower margins than our traditional software license business. The gross margin for our Consumer Products and Services segment is lower than the gross margins in our Business and Products Services segment. The cost of third party content, in particular, is a substantial percentage of net revenue and is unlikely to decrease significantly over time as a percentage of net revenue. Our Consumer Products and Services businesses now represent a substantial majority of our revenue and include our music subscriptions and sales, video subscription services and games subscription and sales as well as advertising revenue across our web properties. If our Consumer Products and Services revenue continues to grow as a percentage of our overall revenue, our margins may further decrease which may affect our ability to sustain profitability. We are also increasingly acquiring music subscribers through wholesale relationships with broadband service providers and other distribution partners, such as our agreement with Comcast for the distribution of our radio products. Our gross margins could be negatively impacted if usage of our radio products by these subscribers significantly exceeds our forecasts. Our subscription levels may vary due to seasonality. Our subscription businesses are rapidly evolving and we are still determining the impact of seasonality on these businesses, including our music and games subscription businesses. In addition, some of the most popular premium content that we have offered in our premium video subscription services is seasonal or periodic in nature and we are experimenting with different types of content to determine what consumers prefer. We have limited experience with these types of offerings and cannot predict how the seasonal or periodic nature of these offerings will impact our subscriber growth rates for these products, future subscriber retention levels or our quarterly financial results. The success of our subscription services businesses depends upon our ability to add new subscribers and minimize subscriber churn. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by subscriber churn. Internet subscription businesses are a relatively new media delivery model and we cannot predict with accuracy our long-term ability to retain subscribers or add new subscribers. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive content generally or as compared to competitive service offerings (including Internet piracy), or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. In addition, the costs of marketing and promotional activities necessary to add new subscribers and the costs of obtaining content that customers desire may adversely impact our margins and operating results. In recent periods, we have seen an increase in the number of gross customer cancellations attributable to our subscription services due in part to our increasingly large subscriber base and to initial service transition issues that arose with the introduction of our new Rhapsody music products in 2005. We are also increasingly acquiring music subscribers through alternative marketing channels, including direct marketing and third party distribution. We believe that subscribers obtained through these channels are likely to have higher cancellation rates. 11 Table of Contents Our digital content subscription businesses depend on our continuing ability to license compelling content on commercially reasonable terms. We must continue to obtain compelling digital media content for our video, music and games subscription services in order to maintain and increase subscription service revenue and overall customer satisfaction for these products. In some cases, we paid substantial fees to obtain premium content. In particular, we pay substantial royalty fees to the music labels to license content. If we cannot obtain premium digital content for any of our digital content subscription services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our business will be harmed. Our online music services depend upon our licensing agreements with the major music label and music publishing companies. Our online music service offerings depend on music licenses from the major music labels and publishers. The current license agreements are for relatively short terms and we cannot be sure that the music labels will renew the licenses on commercially viable terms, or at all. Due to the increasing importance of our music services to our overall revenue, the failure of any major music label or publisher to renew these licenses under terms that are acceptable to us will harm our ability to offer successful music subscription services and would harm our operating results. Music publishing royalty rates for music subscription services are not yet fully established; a determination of high royalty rates could negatively impact our operating results. Publishing royalty rates associated with music subscription services in the U.S. and abroad are not fully established. Public performance licenses are negotiated individually, and we have not yet agreed to rates with all of the performing rights societies for all of our music subscription service activities. We may be required to pay a rate that is higher than we expect, as the issue was recently submitted to a “Rate Court” by ASCAP for judicial determination. We have a license agreement with the Harry Fox Agency, an agency that represents music publishers, to reproduce musical compositions as required in the creation and delivery of on-demand streams and tethered downloads, but this license agreement does not include a rate. The license agreement anticipates industry-wide agreement on rates, or, if no industry-wide agreement can be reached, determination by a copyright royalty board (“CARB”), an administrative judicial proceeding supervised by the United States Copyright Office. If the rates agreed to or determined by a CARB or by Congress are higher than we expect, this expense could negatively impact our operating results. The publishing rates associated with our international music streaming services are also not yet determined and may be higher than our current estimates. Our consumer businesses face substantial competitive challenges that may prevent us from being successful in those businesses. Music. Our online music services face significant competition from traditional offline music distribution competitors and from other online digital music services. Some of these competing online services have spent substantial amounts on marketing and have received significant media attention, including Apple’s iTunes music download service, which it markets closely with its extremely popular iPod line of portable digital audio players, Napster’s music subscription service and Yahoo!, which offers certain of its competing music subscription products at a lower price than our similar products. Microsoft has also begun offering premium music services in conjunction with its Windows Media Player and MSN services. We also expect increasing competition from media companies such as MTV, and from online retailers such as Amazon.com, which recently announced plans to develop and market a digital music player and a related digital music subscription service. Our current music service offerings may not be able to compete effectively in this highly competitive market, particularly if new or existing competitors continue to price their competing digital music products and services lower than ours or increase the costs of customer acquisition through their marketing efforts. Our online music services also face significant competition from “free” peer-to-peer services which allow consumers to directly access an expansive array of free content without securing licenses from content providers. Enforcement efforts have not effectively shut 12 Table of Contents down these services and there can be no assurance that these services will ever be shut down. The ongoing presence of these “free” services substantially impairs the marketability of legitimate services like ours. Video Products and Services. Our video content products and services (primarily our SuperPass subscription service) face competition from existing competitive alternatives and other emerging services and technologies, such as user generated content services like Google Video. Content owners are increasingly marketing their content on their own websites rather than licensing to other distributors such as us. We face competition in these markets from traditional media outlets such as television, radio, CDs, DVDs, videocassettes and others. We also face competition from emerging Internet media sources and established companies entering into the Internet media content market, including Time Warner’s AOL subsidiary, Microsoft, Apple, Yahoo! and broadband Internet service providers. We expect this competition to become more intense as the market and business models for Internet video content mature and more competitors enter these new markets. Competing services may be able to obtain better or more favorable access to compelling video content than us, may develop better offerings than us and may be able to leverage other assets to promote their offerings successfully. Games. Our RealArcade service competes with other online distributors of downloadable casual PC games. Some of these distributors have high volume distribution channels and greater financial resources than us, including Yahoo! Games, MSN Gamezone, Pogo.com and Shockwave. We expect competition to intensify in this market from these and other competitors and no assurance can be made that we will be able to continue to grow our revenue. We also own and operate GameHouse, a developer and distributor of downloadable casual PC games, and we recently acquired Mr. Goodliving, a developer and publisher of mobile games primarily in the European market. Game development is a new business for us, and we may not be able to successfully develop and market software games in the future. GameHouse competes primarily with other developers of downloadable casual PC games and must continue to develop popular and high-quality game titles to maintain its competitive position. In addition, certain competitors of our RealArcade service also distribute and promote games developed by GameHouse. These distributors may not continue to distribute and promote our games in the same manner as a result of our ownership of GameHouse. Mr. Goodliving faces intense competition from a wide variety of mobile game developers and publishers, many of which are larger and devote substantially more resources to the mobile games business than we do. We also recently acquired Zylom, a developer and distributor of casual PC games in Europe. Combining Zylom’s European business with our European games business could result in cannibalization of customer revenue and in developers distributing their games through alternative sources. We may not be successful in the market for downloadable media and personal music management software. The market for software products that enable the downloading of media and personal music management software is still evolving and we may be unable to develop a revenue model or sufficient demand to take advantage of this market opportunity. We cannot predict whether consumers will adopt or maintain our media player products as their primary application to play, record, download and manage their digital music, especially in light of the fact that Microsoft bundles its competing Windows Media Player with its Windows operating system. Our inability to achieve or maintain widespread acceptance for our digital music architecture or widespread distribution of our player products could hold back the development of revenue streams from these market segments, including digital music content, and therefore could harm the prospects for our business. Our consumer businesses depend upon effective digital rights management solutions. Our consumer businesses depend upon effective digital rights management solutions that control of accessibility to digital content. These solutions are important to address concerns of content providers regarding online piracy. We cannot be certain that we can develop, license or acquire such solutions, or that content licensors, electronic device makers or consumers will accept them. In addition, consumers may be unwilling to accept the use of digital rights management technologies that limit their use of content, especially with large amounts of free content readily available. If digital rights management solutions are not effective, or are perceived as not effective, content providers may not be willing to include 13 Table of Contents content in our services, which would harm our business and operating results. If our digital rights management technology is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking compensation for any harm caused and our business could be harmed. Our Harmony Technology may not achieve consumer or market acceptance. Our Harmony technology enables consumers to securely transfer purchased music to portable digital music devices, including certain versions of the market leading iPod line of digital music players made by Apple Computer, as well as certain devices that use Microsoft Windows Media DRM. Harmony is designed to enable consumers to transfer music purchased from our RealPlayer Music Store to a wide variety of portable music devices, rather than being restricted to a specific portable device. We do not know whether consumers will accept Harmony or whether it will lead to increased sales of any of our consumer products or services or increased usage of our media player products. There are other risks associated with our Harmony technology, including the risk that Apple will continue to modify its technology to “break” the interoperability that Harmony provides to consumers, which Apple has done in connection with the release of certain new products. This could result in substantial costs or lower customer satisfaction. The success of our music services depend, in part, on interoperability with our customer’s music playback hardware. In order for our digital music services to continue to grow we must design services that interoperate effectively with a variety of hardware products, including home stereos, car stereos, portable digital audio players, mobile handsets and PCs. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these products and with software manufacturers that create the operating systems for such hardware devices to achieve our objectives. To date, Apple has not agreed to design its popular iPod line of portable digital audio players to function with our music services and users of our music services must rely on our Harmony technology for interoperability with iPods. If we cannot successfully design our service to interoperate with the music playback devices that our customers own, either through relationships with manufacturers or through our Harmony technology, our business will be harmed. Risks Related to Our Business Products and Services Business Our system software business has been negatively impacted by the effects of our competitors and our recent settlement agreement with Microsoft may not improve our sales of our system software products. We believe that our system software sales have been negatively impacted primarily by the competitive effects of Microsoft, which markets and often bundles its competing technology with its market leading operating systems and server software. In December 2003, we filed suit against Microsoft in U.S. District Court to redress what we believed were illegal, anticompetitive practices by Microsoft. On October 11, 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with Microsoft regarding these claims and we also entered into two commercial agreements related to our digital music and casual games businesses. Although the settlement agreement contains a substantial cash payment to us and a series of technology agreements between the two companies, Microsoft will continue to be an aggressive competitor with our systems software business. We cannot be sure if the parts of the settlement agreement designed to limit Microsoft’s ability to leverage its market power will be effective and we cannot predict when, or if, we will experience increased demand for our system software products. 14 Table of Contents Our Helix open source initiative is subject to risks associated with open source technology. There are a number of risks associated with our Helix Community initiative, including risks associated with market and industry acceptance, development processes and software licensing practices, and business models. The broader media technology and product industry may not adopt the Helix DNA Platform and/or the Helix Community as a development platform for media delivery and playback products and third parties may not enhance, develop or introduce technologies or products based on Helix DNA technology. While we have invested substantial resources in the development of the underlying technology within the Helix DNA technology and the Helix Community process itself, the market and industry may not accept them and we may not derive royalty or support revenue from them. The introduction of the Helix DNA Platform open source and community source licensing schemes may adversely affect sales of our commercial system software products to mobile operators, broadband providers, corporations, government agencies, educational institutions and other business and non-business organizations. In those areas where adoption of the Helix Community and Helix DNA occurs, our community and open source approach means that we no longer exercise sole control over many aspects of the development of the Helix DNA technology. Sales of our commercial system products could be negatively affected by open source technologies. Competitive technologies to our commercial system software products have been made available under open source license terms. The introduction of such technologies under broadly available open source software license terms may adversely affect sales of our commercial system software products to mobile operators, broadband providers, corporations, government agencies, educational institutions and other business organizations. Risks Related to Our Business in General We have a history of losses, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. With the exception of 2005, we have incurred losses in every year since our inception. The substantial profit in 2005 was primarily related to cash payments from Microsoft related to our antitrust litigation settlement and commercial agreements. Due to our cost structure, we may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which may contribute to fluctuations in our stock price. As a result of the rapidly changing markets in which we compete, our operating results may fluctuate from period-to-period. In past periods, our operating results have been affected by personnel reductions and related charges, charges relating to losses on excess office facilities, and impairment charges for certain of our equity investments. Our operating results may be adversely affected by similar or other charges or events in future periods, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Certain of our expense decisions (for example, research and development and sales and marketing efforts) are based on predictions regarding our business and the markets in which we compete. To the extent that these predictions prove inaccurate, our revenue may not be sufficient to offset these expenditures, and our operating results may be harmed. Our settlement agreement with Microsoft may not improve our business prospects. In 2003, we filed suit against Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Microsoft violated U.S. and California antitrust laws. In our lawsuit, we alleged that Microsoft had illegally used its monopoly power to restrict competition, limit consumer choice and attempt to monopolize the field of digital media. On October 11, 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with Microsoft regarding these claims and we also entered into two commercial agreements with Microsoft related to our digital music and casual games businesses. The settlement agreement 15 Table of Contents consists of a series of substantial cash payments to us and a series of technology agreements between the two companies. We cannot be sure that we will be able to apply the proceeds of the settlement in a way that will improve our operating results or otherwise increase the value of our shareholders’ investments in our stock. Under the music and games agreements, Microsoft is scheduled to pay us approximately $301 million over a period of eighteen months. Microsoft can earn credits at pre-determined market rates for subscribers and users delivered to us through marketing and promotional efforts of its MSN network of websites, which will be applied against the quarterly contractual payments in the music agreement. The rate at which Microsoft may deliver subscribers and users to us and the rate at which Microsoft may earn the related credits is unpredictable and we do not know whether these agreements will have a substantial impact on our music and games businesses. In addition, our music and games agreements are fixed-term arrangements that require joint collaborative efforts to be successful and may not result in a sustainable favorable impact on our business or financial results during or beyond the term of the agreements. Our products and services must compete with the products and services of strong or dominant competitors. Our software and services must compete with strong existing competitors, and new competitors may enter with competitive new products, services and technologies. These market conditions have in the past resulted in, and could likely continue to result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the trading price of our stock: • reduced prices, revenue and margins; • increased expenses in responding to competitors; • loss of current and potential customers, market share and market power; • lengthened sales cycles; • degradation of our stature in the market and reputation; • changes in our business and distribution and marketing strategies; • changes to our products, services, technology, licenses and business practices, and other disruption of our operations; • strained relationships with partners; and • pressure to prematurely release products or product enhancements. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater resources than we do. Our competitors across the breadth of our product lines include a number of large and powerful companies, such as Microsoft, Apple Computer, and Yahoo!. Some of our competitors have in the past and may in the future enter into collaborative arrangements with each other that enable them to better compete with our business. Microsoft is one of our strongest competitors, and employs highly aggressive tactics against us. Microsoft is one of our principal competitors in the development and distribution of digital media and media distribution technology. Microsoft’s market power in related markets such as personal computer operating systems, office software suites and web browser software give it unique advantages in the digital media markets. Despite our settlement of our antitrust litigation with Microsoft, we expect that Microsoft will continue to compete vigorously in the digital media markets in the future. Microsoft’s dominant position in certain parts of the computer and software markets, and its aggressive activities have had, and in the future will likely continue to have, adverse effects on our business and operating results. Any development delays or cost overruns may affect our operating results. We have experienced delays and cost overruns in our development efforts in the past and we may encounter such problems in the future. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to 16 Table of Contents technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. Also, our products may contain undetected errors that could cause increased development costs, loss of revenue, adverse publicity, reduced market acceptance of our products or services or lawsuits by customers. Our business is dependent in part on third party vendors whom we do not control. Certain of our products and services are dependent in part on the licensing and incorporation of technology from third party vendors. If the technology of these vendors fails to perform as expected or if a key vendor does not continue to support its technology, then we may incur substantial costs in replacing the products and services, or we may fall behind in our development schedule while we search for a replacement. These costs or the potential delay in the development of our products and services could harm our business and our prospects. If our products are not able to support the most popular digital media formats, our business will be substantially impaired. We may not be able to license technologies, like codecs or digital rights management technology, that obtain widespread consumer and developer use, which would harm consumer and developer acceptance of our products and services. In addition, our codecs and formats may not continue to be in demand or as desirable as other third party codecs and formats, including codecs and formats created by Microsoft or industry standard formats created by MPEG. Our mobile digital media products and services are new and innovative and might not be successful. Mobile operators may select technology from our competitors or our mobile consumer services might not generate significant revenue. In order for our investments in the development of mobile products to be successful, consumers must adopt and use mobile devices for consumption of digital media and utilize our products and services. To date, consumers have not widely adopted these mobile digital media products and services. We depend on key personnel who may not continue to work for us. Our success depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees, particularly Robert Glaser, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Glaser or other key executive officers or employees could harm our business. If any of these individuals were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating existing personnel, our business and prospects could be harmed. Our industry is experiencing consolidation that may cause us to lose key relationships and intensify competition. The Internet and media distribution industries are undergoing substantial change, which has resulted in increasing consolidation and formation of strategic relationships. Acquisitions or other consolidating transactions could harm us in a number of ways, including: • the loss of strategic relationships if our strategic partners are acquired by or enter into relationships with a competitor (which could cause us to lose access to distribution, content, technology and other resources); • the loss of customers if competitors or users of competing technologies consolidate with our current or potential customers; and • our current competitors could become stronger, or new competitors could form, from consolidations. 17 Table of Contents Any of these events could put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could cause us to lose customers, revenue and market share. Consolidation in our industry, or in related industries such as broadband carriers, could force us to expend greater resources to meet new or additional competitive threats, which could also harm our operating results. Potential acquisitions involve risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired technologies and businesses in the past, and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. The failure to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by acquisitions of technology and businesses could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the benefits of the acquisitions. Financial risks related to acquisitions may harm our financial position, reported operating results or stock price. Acquisitions also involve operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from an acquisition. These operational risks include: • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems or personnel of the acquired company and difficulties in retaining key management or employees of the acquired company; • entrance into unfamiliar markets or industry segments; • impairment of relationships with employees, affiliates, advertisers or content providers of our business or the acquired business; and • the assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims. Our recent acquisitions create unique challenges for us and if we fail to integrate and successfully operate the acquired companies, our business will be harmed. We acquired Listen in 2003 and the operations associated with Listen have remained in San Francisco. This is our first experience operating and integrating a substantial acquired business in a remote location. We also acquired GameHouse in 2004, Mr. Goodliving in 2005 and Zylom in 2006. The acquisition of GameHouse is our first attempt to operate and manage a content creation business and we may not be successful in operating this type of business. Mr. Goodliving is a game developer and also competes in the mobile games market which is a new business for us and is a highly competitive market. No assurance can be made that we will be able to leverage Mr. Goodliving’s European assets and distribution network to compete successfully in the global mobile games market. Our two most recent acquisitions, Mr. Goodliving and Zylom, are based in Europe. These acquisitions represent our first attempts at acquiring and integrating businesses abroad. Mr. Goodliving is located in Finland and Zylom is located in the Netherlands. We have no prior experience in managing businesses in these countries and in certain cases we will have to adjust our operating procedures to conform to local cultural and legal issues, many of which are unfamiliar to us. No assurance can be made that we will be able to successfully manage businesses in these countries. Acquisition-related costs could cause significant fluctuation in our net income (loss). Previous acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased technology, charges for in-process research and development and amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets, which are reflected in our operating expenses. New acquisitions and any potential future impairment of the value of purchased assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. 18 Table of Contents Our strategic investments may not be successful and we may have to recognize expenses in our income statement in connection with these investments. We have made, and in the future we may continue to make, strategic investments in other companies, including joint ventures. These investments often involve immature and unproven businesses and technologies, and involve a high degree of risk. We could lose the entire amount of our investment. We also may be required to record on our financial statements significant charges from reductions in the value of our strategic investments, and, potentially from the net losses of the companies in which we invest. We have taken these charges in the past, and these charges could adversely impact our reported operating results in the future. No assurance can be made that we will realize the anticipated benefits from any strategic investment. We need to develop relationships and technical standards with manufacturers of non-PC media and communication devices to grow our business. Access to the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants, cellular phones, television set-top devices, game consoles, Internet appliances and portable music and games devices has increased dramatically and is expected to continue to increase. Manufacturers of these types of products are increasingly investing in digital media-related applications. If a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers do not license and incorporate our technology into their devices, we may fail to capitalize on the opportunity to deliver digital media to non-PC devices which could harm our business prospects. We do not believe that complete standards have emerged with respect to non-PC wireless and cable-based systems and if our technologies are not adopted, our results could suffer. If we do not successfully make our products and technologies compatible with emerging standards and the most popular devices used to access digital media, we may miss market opportunities and our business and results will suffer. If we are not successful in maintaining, managing and adding to our strategic relationships, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on strategic relationships with third parties in connection with our business, including relationships providing for content acquisition and distribution of our products. The loss of current strategic relationships, the inability to find other strategic partners, our failure to effectively manage these relationships or the failure of our existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results could harm our business. We may not be able to replace these relationships with others on acceptable terms, or at all, or find alternative sources for resources that these relationships provide. Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks fail, become unavailable, unsecure or perform poorly so that current or potential users do not have adequate access to our products, services and websites. Our ability to provide our products and services to our customers and operate our business depends on the continued operation of our information systems and networks. A significant or repeated reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could harm our ability to conduct our business, and harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain users, customers, advertisers and content providers. Also, any compromise of our ability to transmit data securely could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue. We have on occasion experienced system errors and failures that cause interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time. Problems with our systems and networks could result from our failure to adequately maintain and enhance these systems and networks, natural disasters and similar events, power failures, intentional actions to disrupt our systems and networks and many other causes. The vulnerability of our computer and communications infrastructure is enhanced because it is located at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake, flood, and volcanic events. We do not currently have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and 19 Table of Contents we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. We rely on the continued reliable operation of third parties’ systems and networks and, if these systems and networks fail to operate or operate poorly, our business and operating results will be harmed. Our operations are in part dependent upon the continued reliable operation of the information systems and networks of third parties. If these third parties do not provide reliable operation, our ability to service our customers will be impaired and our business, reputation and operating results could be harmed. Our network is subject to security risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Online commerce and communications depend on the ability to transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit and store such information and data securely, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. We also may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or hacker attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks. Any successful attack or breach of our security could hurt consumer demand for our products and services, expose us to consumer class action lawsuits and harm our business. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. A key part of our strategy is to develop localized products and services in international markets through subsidiaries, branch offices and joint ventures. If we do not successfully implement this strategy, we may not recoup our international investments and we may fail to develop or lose worldwide market share. Our foreign operations involve risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, different or conflicting laws and regulations and exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could harm operating results and financial condition. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. In particular, we intend to grow our business in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”). The PRC government regulates our business in the PRC through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) the scope of foreign investment in the Internet, retail and delivery sectors, (ii) Internet content and (iii) the sale of certain media products. In order to meet the PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, our business in the PRC will be operated through a PRC subsidiary which acts in cooperation with PRC companies owned by nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although we believe this structure complies with existing PRC laws, it involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that the PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. If any of our PRC entities were found to be in violation of existing or future PRC laws or regulations or if interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked or be forced to shut down entirely. In addition, if we are unable to enforce our contractual relationships with respect to management and control of our PRC business, we might be unable to continue to operate the business or we may lose the ability to effectively control the operations of the local PRC company. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our 20 Table of Contents proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Despite these efforts, any of the following occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property: • Our applications for patents and trademarks relating to our business may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • Issued patents and trademarks may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; • Our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we develop; or • Another party may obtain a blocking patent and we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested feature or service in our products. We may be forced to litigate to defend our intellectual property rights, or to defend against claims by third parties against us relating to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution and online businesses are common and likely to arise in the future. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. The existence and/or outcome of any such litigation could harm our business. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our internally developed technology or technology we license from third parties may infringe the third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. We are now investigating a number of such pending claims, some of which are described in Part I of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” In addition, certain of these pending claims are moving closer to trial and we expect that our potential costs of defending these claims may increase as we move into the trial phase of the proceedings. In July 2002, a lawsuit was filed against us in federal court in Boston, Massachusetts by Ethos Technologies, Inc., alleging that we willfully infringe certain patents relating to “the downloading of data from a server computer to a client computer.” The court has scheduled that case for trial beginning in March 2006. We plan to vigorously defend ourself at trial based upon our belief that the Ethos claims are meritless. If we are unable to prevail at trial, we may be required to pay damages and royalties that could affect our operating results. Interpretation of existing laws that did not originally contemplate the Internet could harm our business and operating results. The application of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyright and other intellectual property issues to the Internet is not clear. Many of these laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet and do not address the unique issues associated with the Internet and related technologies. In many cases, the relationship of these laws to the Internet has not yet been interpreted. New interpretations of existing laws may increase our costs, require us to change business practices or otherwise harm our business. 21 Table of Contents It is not yet clear how laws designed to protect children that use the Internet may be interpreted, and such laws may apply to our business in ways that may harm our business. The Child Online Protection Act and the Child Online Privacy Protection Act impose civil and criminal penalties on persons distributing material harmful to minors (e.g., obscene material) over the Internet to persons under the age of 17, or collecting personal information from children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly distribute harmful materials to minors or collect personal information from children under the age of 13. The manner in which these Acts may be interpreted and enforced cannot be fully determined, and future legislation similar to these Acts could subject us to potential liability if we were deemed to be non-compliant with such rules and regulations, which in turn could harm our business. We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with the data collection capabilities of our products and services. Many of our products are interactive Internet applications that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information to our servers. Many of the services we provide also require that a user provide certain information to us. We post an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy and existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation and harm our business. We may be subject to legal liability for the provision of third-party products, services or content. We periodically enter into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, content or advertising under our brands or via distribution on our websites or in our products or service offerings. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, content or advertising by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them. Our agreements with these third parties may not adequately protect us from these potential liabilities. It is also possible that, if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us, including, for example, claims for intellectual property infringement. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. If any of these claims result in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and our operating results. When we account for employee stock options using the fair value method, it could significantly reduce our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS 123R), which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of stock options and other stock-based compensation beginning in the quarter ending September 30, 2005. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued “Amendment to Rule 4-01(a) of Regulation S-X Regarding the Compliance Date for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share Based Payment,” which amends the compliance date with regard to SFAS 123R to annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2005, which will result in our recognizing the related expense starting in the quarter ending March 31, 2006. We will be required to record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method as described in SFAS 123R, which will result in significant and ongoing accounting charges. Stock options are also a key part of the compensation packages that we offer our employees. If we are forced to curtail our broad-based option program due to these additional charges, it may become more difficult for us to attract and retain employees. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. We do not currently collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services in states and countries other than those in which we have offices or employees. Our business would be harmed if one or more states or any foreign country were to require us to collect sales or other taxes from past sales or income related to products, licenses of technology or provision of services. Effective July 1, 2003, we began collecting Value Added Tax, or VAT, on sales of “electronically supplied services” provided to European Union residents, including software products, games, data, publications, music, video and fee-based broadcasting services. There can be no assurance that the European Union will not make further modifications to the VAT collection scheme, the effects of which could require significant enhancements to our systems and increase the cost of selling our products and services into the European Union. The collection and remittance of VAT subjects us to additional currency fluctuation risks. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, or ITFA, which Congress extended until November 2007, among other things, imposed a moratorium on discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. We donate a portion of our net income to charity. In periods where we achieve profitability, we intend to donate 5% of our annual net income to charitable organizations, which will reduce our net income for those periods. The non-profit RealNetworks Foundation manages our charitable giving efforts. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately one third of our stock, which gives them significant control over certain major decisions on which our shareholders may vote, may discourage an acquisition of us, and any significant sales of stock by our officers and directors could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own more than one third of our common stock. Robert Glaser, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns the majority of that stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of RealNetworks, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 23 Table of Contents Provisions of our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Washington law could discourage our acquisition by a third party. Our articles of incorporation provide for a strategic transaction committee of the board of directors. Without the prior approval of this committee, and subject to certain limited exceptions, the board of directors does not have the authority to: • adopt a plan of merger; • authorize the sale, lease, exchange or mortgage of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of our assets prior to the transaction or on which our long-term business strategy is substantially dependent; • authorize our voluntary dissolution; or • take any action that has the effect of any of the above. RealNetworks also entered into an agreement providing Mr. Glaser with certain contractual rights relating to the enforcement of our charter documents and Mr. Glaser’s roles and authority within RealNetworks. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides that shares of our common stock have associated preferred stock purchase rights. The exercise of these rights would make the acquisition of RealNetworks by a third party more expensive to that party and has the effect of discouraging third parties from acquiring RealNetworks without the approval of our board of directors, which has the power to redeem these rights and prevent their exercise. Washington law imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The foregoing provisions of our charter documents, shareholder rights plan, our agreement with Mr. Glaser, our zero coupon convertible subordinated notes and Washington law, as well as our charter provisions that provide for a classified board of directors and the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions may therefore have the effect of limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We are exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The requirements and processes associated with Section 404 are relatively new and still evolving and we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken will be sufficient to meet the Section 404 requirements as the guidance and our reporting environment changes or that we will be able to implement and maintain adequate controls over financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the costs associated with such measures will not exceed our estimates, which could impact our overall level of profitability. Any failure to meet the Section 404 requirements or to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties or unanticipated costs encountered in their implementation, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or could harm our financial results, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2005, the price of our common stock ranged from $9.08 to $4.65 per share. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated 24 Table of Contents variations in quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates, recommendations by securities analysts, changes in the competitive environment, as well as any of the other risk factors described above. Financial forecasting of our operating results will be difficult because of the changing nature of our products and business, and our actual results may differ from forecasts. As a result of the dynamic markets in which we compete, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results and metrics. Our inability or the inability of the financial community to accurately forecast our operating results could result in our reported net income (losses) in a given quarter to differ from expectations, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this document, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. When we use words such as “may”, “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek” and “estimate” or similar words, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future business success or financial results. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements as to our expectations regarding: • increasing competition for subscribers and purchasers in the market for the purchase of music online; • future competitive activities of online music subscription services for new subscribers, including Apple’s efforts to market and promote its services; • increasing competition to our video content services; • future competitive activities of Microsoft in the overall market for digital media and media distribution products and services, including its ability to distribute more copies of the Windows Media Player and attract more users and content providers by tying streaming of digital media into its operating systems and web browser; • anticipated increased cancellation rates of subscribers to our internet subscription services who we obtain through alternative marketing channels; • increasing competition to our online music services from media companies, online retailers and Internet portals; • increasing competition to our online game distribution business; • the growth of our business in China; • slowing sequential revenue growth in 2006 of our Consumer Products and Services; • the impact on our gross margins if revenue from our digital media subscription services continues to grow as a percentage of our net revenue; • the increase of our sales and marketing expenses in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenue as we grow our consumer business and shift our marketing efforts to consumer products and services; • potential future charges relating to excess office facilities; • the impact of SFAS 123R on our consolidated statement of operations; • our future activities under our stock repurchase programs; • future capital needs and expenditures; 25 Table of Contents • the future impact of a sudden change in market interest rates on our operating results and cash flows; and • the impact and duration of current litigation in which we are involved. You should note that an investment in our common stock involves certain risks and uncertainties that could affect our future business success or financial results. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe that it is important to communicate our expectations to our investors. However, there may be events in the future that we are not able to predict accurately or over which we have no control. Before you invest in our common stock, you should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in the “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 