Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, and that such factors may adversely affect our business and financial status and therefore the value of your investment: 5 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business Any global systemic political, economic and financial crisis or catastrophe caused or induced by natural disasters could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The 2008-2009 systemic economic and financial crisis that had affected global business, banking and financial sectors had also affected the semiconductor market. The 2008 turmoil in global markets resulted in sharp declines in electronic products sales from which we generate our income through our goods and services. There were and could be in the future a number of knock-on effects from such turmoil on our business, including significant decreases in orders from our customers; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. For example, ongoing social unrest in certain oil producing countries could constrain the supply of oil that could have an adverse effect on the global economy and decline in demand for electronic products. The effects of the recent earthquake which hit Japan may disrupt global demand for electronic products and services. Any systemic political, economic or financial crisis or natural disasters induced catastrophe could cause revenues for the semiconductor industry as a whole to decline dramatically, which industry is subject to unexpected change in response to fluctuating global market conditions. Also, if economic conditions or the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional accounting related allowances may be required in the future and such additional allowances would increase our operating expenses and therefore reduce our operating income and net income. Any global economic crisis or catastrophes induced by natural disasters could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Since we are dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor and microelectronics industries, which have experienced significant and sometimes prolonged periods of downturns and overcapacity, our revenues, earnings and margins may fluctuate significantly. The semiconductor market and microelectronics industries have historically been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Our semiconductor foundry business is affected by market conditions in such highly cyclical semiconductor and microelectronics industries. Most of our customers operate in these industries. Variations in order levels from our customers result in volatility in our revenues and earnings. From time to time, the semiconductor and microelectronics industries have experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged periods of downturns and overcapacity. Any systemic economic, political, or financial crisis, such as the one that occurred in 2008-2009, could create significant volatility and uncertainty within the semiconductor and microelectronics industries which may disrupt traditional notions of cyclicality within such industries. As such, the nature, extent and scope of such periods of downturns and overcapacity may vary drastically in accordance with the degree of volatility of market demand. Because we are, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor and microelectronics companies for our services, periods of downturns and overcapacity in the general semiconductor and microelectronics industries lead to reduced demand for overall semiconductor foundry services, including our services. If we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, our revenues, margin and earnings will suffer during periods of downturns and overcapacity. Decreases in demand and average selling prices for products that contain semiconductors may adversely affect demand for our products and may result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. A vast majority of our sales revenue is derived from customers who use our services in communication devices, personal computers and consumer electronics products. Any decrease in the demand for the products may decrease the demand for overall global semiconductor foundry services, including our services and may adversely affect our revenues. Further, a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed because we own most of our manufacturing capacities. In general, these costs do not decline when customer demand or our capacity utilization rates drop, and thus declines in customer demand, among other factors, may significantly decrease our margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, which can improve our margins. In addition, the historical and current trend of declining average selling prices (or “ASP”) of end use applications places downward pressure on the prices of the components that go into such applications. If the ASP of end use applications continues decreasing, the pricing pressure on components produced by us may lead to a reduction of our revenues, margin and earnings. If we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive foundry segment of the semiconductor industry, we may lose customers and our profit margin and earnings may decrease. 6 Table of Contents The markets for our foundry services are highly competitive both in Taiwan and internationally. We compete with other dedicated foundry service providers, as well as integrated device manufacturers. Some of these companies may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than us, (such as the possibility of receiving direct or indirect government bailout/economic stimulus funds or other incentives that may be unavailable to us). Our competition may, from time to time, also decide to undertake aggressive pricing initiatives in one or more technology nodes. Competitive activities may decrease our customer base, or our ASP, or both. If we are unable to remain a technological leader in the semiconductor industry, we may become less competitive. The semiconductor industry and its technologies are constantly changing. We compete by developing process technologies using increasingly advanced nodes and on manufacturing products with more functions. We also compete by developing new derivative technologies. If we do not anticipate these changes in technologies and rapidly develop new and innovative technologies, or our competitors unforeseeably gain sudden access to additional technologies, we may not be able to provide foundry services on competitive terms. Although we have concentrated on maintaining a competitive edge in research and development, if we fail to achieve advances in technologies or processes, or to obtain access to advanced technologies or processes developed by others, we may become less competitive. If we are unable to manage our capacity and the streamlining of our production facilities effectively, our competitiveness may be weakened. We perform periodic long term market demand forecasts to estimate market and general economic conditions for our products and services. Based upon these estimates, we manage our overall capacity which may increase or decrease in accordance with market demand. Because market conditions may vary significantly and unexpectedly, our market demand forecast may change significantly at any time. Further, since certain manufacturing lines or tools in some of our manufacturing facilities may be placed in “warm mode” or suspended temporarily during periods of decreased demand, we may not be able to ramp up in a timely manner during periods of increased demand. During periods of continued decline in demand, our operating facilities may not be able to absorb and complete in a timely manner outstanding orders re-directed from shuttered facilities. Based on demand forecasts, we have been adding capacity to our 300mm wafer fabs in the Hsinchu Science Park and Tainan Science Park, respectively. Total monthly capacity for 300mm wafer fabs was increased from 154,300 wafers as of December 31, 2008 to 171,400 wafers as of December 31, 2009 and to 244,600 wafers as of December 31, 2010. Expansion and modification of our production facilities will, among other factors, increase our costs. For example, we will need to purchase additional equipment, train personnel to operate the new equipment or hire additional personnel. If we do not increase our net sales accordingly, in order to offset these higher costs, our financial performance may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Capacity Management and Technology Upgrade Plans” for a further discussion. We may not be able to implement our planned growth or development if we are unable to obtain sufficient financial resources to meet our future capital requirements. Capital requirements are difficult to plan in the highly dynamic, cyclical and rapidly changing semiconductor industry. From time to time, we will continue to need significant capital to fund our operations and manage our capacity in accordance with market demand. Our continued ability to obtain sufficient external financing is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flow; • general market conditions for financing activities; • market conditions for financing activities of semiconductor companies; and • social, economic, financial, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. Sufficient external financing may not be available to us on a timely basis, on reasonable market terms, or at all. As a result, we may be forced to curtail our expansion and modification plans or delay the deployment of new or expanded services until we obtain such financing. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to implement our planned growth, development or maintain our leading position if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified executives, managers and skilled technical and service personnel or suffer production disruptions caused by labor disputes. We depend on the continued services and contributions of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose, for whatever reasons, the services and contributions of some of these personnel and we cannot adequately replace them, or if we suffer disruptions to our production operations arising from labor or industrial disputes. We may be required to increase or reduce the number of employees in connection with any business expansion or contraction, in accordance with market demand for our products and services. Since there is intense competition for the recruitment of these personnel, we cannot ensure that we will be able to fulfill our personnel requirements, or rehire such reduced personnel on comparable terms in a timely manner during an economic upturn. We may be unable to obtain in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost the equipment necessary for us to remain competitive. Our operations and ongoing expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain an appropriate amount of equipment and related services from a limited number of suppliers in a market that is characterized by limited supply and long delivery cycles. During such times, supplier-specific or industry-wide lead times for delivery can be as long as six months or more. Also, the effects of the recent earthquake which hit Japan may make such supply even more limited and may further lengthen delivery cycles. To better manage our supply chain, we have implemented various business models and risk management contingencies with suppliers to shorten the procurement lead time. We also provide our projected demand for various items to many of our equipment suppliers to help them plan their production in advance. We have purchased used tools and continue to seek opportunities in acquiring relevant used tools. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner to fulfill our customers’ orders, or at a reasonable cost, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our revenue and profitability may decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner and at reasonable prices. Our production operations require that we obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases, chemicals, and photoresist, on a timely basis. Shortages in the supply of some materials experienced by specific vendors or by the semiconductor industry generally have in the past resulted in occasional industry-wide price adjustments and delivery delays. Also, since we procure some of our raw materials from sole-source suppliers, there is a risk that our need for such raw materials may not be met when needed or that back-up supplies may not be readily obtainable. Many of our raw materials are sourced from Japan. The effects of the recent earthquake that hit Japan may undercut our ability to procure on a timely basis sufficient raw materials to produce our products and render our services. Our revenue and earnings could decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of the necessary raw materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials that we cannot pass on to our customers. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs uses a substantial portion of our production capacity, we will not be able to service our other customers. According to our agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan, or ITRI, the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the R.O.C., or an entity designated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has an option to purchase up to 35% of certain of our capacity, if our outstanding commitments to our customers are not prejudiced. Although the Ministry of Economic Affairs has never exercised this option, if this option is exercised to any significant degree during tight market conditions, we may not be able to provide services to all of our other customers unless we are able to increase our capacity accordingly or outsource such increased demand and in a timely manner. Any inability to obtain, preserve and defend our technologies and intellectual property rights could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future growth will depend in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio. While we actively enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our proprietary technologies, trade secrets, software or know-how. Also, we cannot assure you that, as our business or business models expand into new areas, or otherwise, we will be able to develop independently the technologies, trade secrets, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without unknowingly infringing the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may have to rely increasingly on licensed technologies and patent licenses from others. To the extent that we rely on licenses from others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any or all of the necessary licenses in the future on terms we consider reasonable or at all. The lack of necessary licenses could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunctions from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have contractually agreed to indemnify our customers against damages resulting from infringement claims. 8 Table of Contents We have received, from time-to-time, communications from third parties asserting that our technologies, manufacturing processes, the design of the integrated circuits made by us or the use by our customers of semiconductors made by us may infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights. And, because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to receive such communications in the future. In some instances, these disputes have resulted in litigation. Recently, there has been a notable increase in the number of claims or lawsuits initiated by certain litigious, non-practicing entities that have not only increased, but the non-practicing entities are also becoming more aggressive in their monetary demands and requests for court-issued injunctions. Such lawsuits or claims may increase our cost of doing business and may potentially be extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services. If we fail to obtain or maintain certain government, technologies or intellectual property licenses and, if litigation relating to alleged intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing or selling particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion. We are subject to the risk of loss due to explosion and fire because some of the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly combustible. We and many of our suppliers use highly combustible and toxic materials in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from explosion, fire, or environmental influences which cannot be completely eliminated. Although we maintain many overlapping risk prevention and protection systems, as well as comprehensive fire and casualty insurance, including insurance for loss of property and loss of profit resulting from business interruption, our risk management and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs were to be damaged, or cease operations as a result of an explosion, fire, or environmental influences, it could reduce our manufacturing capacity and may cause us to lose important customers, thereby having a potentially adverse and material impact on our financial performance. Any impairment charges may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Under R.O.C. GAAP and U.S. GAAP, we are required to evaluate our long-lived assets and intangible assets for impairment whenever triggering events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired and carrying value may not be recoverable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge. We are also required under R.O.C. GAAP and U.S. GAAP to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis or more frequently whenever triggering events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired and the carrying value may not be recoverable. We currently are not able to estimate the extent or timing of any impairment charge for future years. Any impairment charge required may have a material adverse effect on our net income. The determination of an impairment charge at any given time is based significantly on our expected results of operations over a number of years subsequent to that time. As a result, an impairment charge is more likely to occur during a period when our operating results are otherwise already depressed. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of how we assess if an impairment charge is required and, if so, how the amount is determined. The loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by any of our largest customers could adversely affect our results of operations. While we generate revenue from hundreds of customers worldwide, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 53%, 53% and 54% of our net sales in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our largest customer accounted for 14%, 10% and 9% of our net sales in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, one or more of our top customers, including curtailments due to increased competitive pressures, a change in the design, or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer or distributor inventory adjustments, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and corruption, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We are required to comply with various R.O.C. and U.S. laws and regulations on internal controls. For example, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we are required to furnish a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, R.O.C. law requires us to establish internal control systems that would reasonably ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are also required under R.O.C. law to file an internal control declaration within four months of the end of each fiscal year. Internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, fraud or corruption. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and ADSs. Our global manufacturing, design and sales activities subject us to risks associated with legal, political, economic or other conditions or developments in various jurisdictions, including in particular the R.O.C., which could negatively affect our business and financial status and therefore the market value of your investment. Our principal executive officers and our principal production facilities are located in the R.O.C., and a substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from our operations in the R.O.C. In addition, we have operations worldwide and a significant percentage of our revenue comes from sales to locations outside the R.O.C. Operating in the R.O.C. and overseas exposes us to changes in policies and laws, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, in the various countries in which we operate, which could result in an adverse effect on our business operations in such countries and our results of operations as well as the market price and the liquidity of our ADSs and common shares. For example, even though the R.O.C. and the PRC have co-existed for the past 61 years and significant economic and cultural relations have been established during that time, the financial markets have viewed certain past developments in relations between the two sides as occasions to depress general market prices of the securities of Taiwanese companies, including our own. In addition, the R.O.C. government has not lifted some trade and investment restrictions imposed on Taiwanese companies on the amount and types of certain investments that can be made in Mainland China. Our operational results could also be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or interruptions in the supply of utilities (such as water or electricity), in the locations in which we, our customers, or our suppliers operate. The apparent frequency and severity of natural disasters has increased recently due to environmental and climate-related changes. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, tsunamis and other flooding, and earthquakes, as well as interruptions or shortages in the supply of utilities, such as water and electricity, which could disrupt operations. We have operations in earthquake-prone locations and any major natural disaster occurring in any such locations may cause severe disruptions to our business operations and financial performance. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. For example, most of our production facilities, as well as those of many of our suppliers and customers and upstream providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, are located in Taiwan and Japan, which are susceptible to earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, typhoons, and droughts from time to time. In addition, we have sometimes suffered power outages in Taiwan caused through difficulties encountered by our electricity supplier, the Taiwan Power Company, or other power consumers on the same power grid, which have resulted in interruptions to our production schedule. No guarantee can be given, however, that insurance will fully cover any losses and our emergency response plans will be effective in preventing or minimizing losses in the future. One or more natural disasters or interruptions to the supply of utilities that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may adversely affect the result of our operations and financial conditions. 10 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with applicable environmental and climate related laws and regulations, as well as international accords to which we are subject, could also harm our business and operational results. The manufacturing, assembling and testing of our products require the use of chemicals and materials that are subject to environmental, climate-related, and health and safety laws and regulations issued worldwide. Although we may be eligible for various exemptions and/or extensions of time for compliance, our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: • significant penalties and legal liabilities, such as the denial of import permits; • the temporary or permanent suspension of production of the affected products; • unfavorable alterations in our manufacturing, fabrication and assembly and test processes; and • restrictions on our operations or sales. Existing and future environmental and climate related laws and regulations as well as applicable international accords to which we are subject, could also require us, among other things, to do the following: (a) purchase, use or install expensive pollution control, reduction or remediation equipment; (b) implement climate change mitigation programs and “abatement or reduction of greenhouse gas emissions” programs, or “carbon credit trading” programs; (c) modify our product designs and manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses associated with such laws and regulations, such as obtaining substitute raw materials or chemicals that may cost more or be less available for our operations. It is still unclear whether such necessary actions would affect the reliability or efficiency of our products and services. Any of the above contingencies resulting from the actual and potential impact of local or international laws and regulations, as well as international accords on environmental or climate change, could harm our business and operational results by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. For further details, please see our compliance record with Taiwan and international environmental and climate related laws and regulations in “Item 4. Information on the Company — Environmental Regulations”. Climate change, other environmental concerns and green initiatives also present other commercial challenges, economic risks and physical risks that could harm our operational results or affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Increasing climate change and environmental concerns could affect the results of our operations if any of our customers request that we exceed any standard(s) set for environmentally compliant products and services. For example, we have been working with our suppliers, customers, and several industry consortia to develop and provide products that are compliant with the EU “RoHS” (European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive. Even though we are entitled to rely on various exemptions under RoHS, some of our customers might request that we provide products that exceed the legal standard set by RoHS without using any of the exemptions still permitted under RoHS. If we are unable to offer such products or offer products that are compliant, but are not as reliable due to the lack of reasonably available alternative technologies or materials, we may lose market share to our competitors. 11 Table of Contents Further, energy costs in general could increase significantly due to climate change regulations. Therefore, our energy costs may increase significantly if utility or power companies pass on their costs, either fully or partially, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and carbon credit trading programs. For further details, please see details of our business continuity management of climate change policy in “Item 4. Information on the Company — Environmental Regulation”. In order to mitigate risks resulting from climate change, we continue to actively carry out energy conservation measures, implement voluntary perfluorinated compounds (“PFCs”) emission reduction projects and conduct greenhouse gas inventories and verification every year. Since 2005, we have publicly disclosed climate change information every year through participation in the annual survey conducted by the nonprofit carbon disclosure project, which includes greenhouse gas emission and reduction information for all of our fabs. Adverse fluctuations in exchange rates could decrease our operating margin. Over one-half of our capital expenditures and manufacturing costs are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros. More than 90% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and currencies other than NT dollars. Therefore, any significant fluctuation to our disadvantage in such exchange rates would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, during the period from September 1, 2010 to December 30, 2010, the U.S. dollar depreciated 8.97% against the NT dollar, which had a negative impact on our results of operations. Specifically, every 1% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the NT dollar exchange rate results in approximately 0.4 percentage point decrease in TSMC’s operating margin. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar may affect the U.S. dollar value of our common shares and the market price of the ADSs and of any cash dividends paid in NT dollars on our common shares represented by ADSs. Please see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a further discussion on the possible impact of other market factors on our results of operations. Fluctuations in inflationary and deflationary market expectations could negatively affect costs of and demand for our products and services, which may harm our financial results. The world economy is becoming more vulnerable to sudden unexpected fluctuations in inflationary and deflationary market expectations and conditions. Certain structural changes that resulted from the 2008-2009 global financial crisis may cause variations in the expectation of inflation or deflation. Both high inflation and deflation adversely affect an economy, at both the macro and micro levels, by reducing economic efficiency, disrupting saving and investment decisions and reducing the efficiency of the market prices as a mechanism to allocate resources. Such fluctuations are likely to negatively affect the costs of our operations and the business operations of our customers who may be forced to plan their purchases of our goods and services within an uncertain macro and micro economy. Therefore, the demand for our products and services could unexpectedly fluctuate severely in accordance with market and consumer expectations of inflation or deflation. Please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Inflation & Deflation” for a further discussion. Risks Relating to Ownership of ADSs Your voting rights as a holder of ADSs will be limited. Holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) evidencing ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our ADS deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the holders (i) the notice of the meeting sent by us, (ii) voting instruction forms and (iii) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. According to the R.O.C. Company Law, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors. Election of directors is by means of cumulative voting. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Voting of Deposited Securities” for a more detailed discussion of the manner in which a holder of ADSs can exercise its voting rights. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. 12 Table of Contents We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under our ADS deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”), with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. Although we may be eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions for rights offerings by certain foreign companies, we can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have such a registration statement declared effective. In addition, if the depositary bank is unable to obtain the requisite approval from the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan) for the conversion of the subscription payments into NT dollars or if the depositary determines that it is unlikely to obtain this approval, we may decide with the depositary bank not to make the rights available to holders of ADSs. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Foreign Investment in the R.O.C.” and “Item 10. Additional Information — Exchange Controls in the R.O.C.”. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. If the depositary bank is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. The value of your investment may be reduced by possible future sales of common shares or ADSs by us or our shareholders. One or more of our existing shareholders may, from time to time, dispose of significant numbers of our common shares or ADSs. For example, the National Development Fund of Taiwan, R.O.C. which owned 6.4% of TSMC’s outstanding shares as of February 28, 2011, has sold our shares in the form of ADSs in several transactions during the period between 1997 and 2005. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of ADSs or common shares, or the availability of ADSs or common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of ADSs or common shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs or common shares. The market value of our shares may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the R.O.C. securities market. Because the Taiwan Stock Exchange experiences from time to time substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In response to past declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, and in line with similar activities by other countries in Asia, the government of the R.O.C. formed the Stabilization Fund, which has purchased and may from time to time purchase shares of Taiwan companies to support these markets. In addition, other funds associated with the R.O.C. government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. In the future, market activity by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause fluctuations in the market prices of our ADSs and common shares. 