Item 1A. Risk Factors. Choice Hotels International, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to various risks, which could have a negative effect on the Company and its financial condition. These risks could cause actual operating results to differ from those expressed in certain “forward looking statements” contained in this Form 10-K as well as in other Company communications. Before you invest in our securities you should carefully consider these risk factors together with all other information included in our publicly filed documents. We are subject to the operating risks common in the lodging and franchising industries. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from fees based on room revenues at hotels franchised under our brands. As such, our business is subject, directly or through our franchisees, to the following risks common in the lodging and franchising industry, among others: • changes in the number of hotels operating under franchised brands; • changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various lodging industry price categories; • changes in occupancy and room rates achieved by hotels; • desirability of hotel geographic location; • changes in general and local economic and market conditions, which can adversely affect the level of business and leisure travel, and therefore the demand for lodging and related services; • increases in costs due to inflation may not be able to be totally offset by increases in room rates; • conversely, if the economy experiences deflation, which is defined as a persistent decline in the general price level of goods and services, franchisees may be required to lower their room rates which would result in lower revenues to the Company. In addition, there is no guarantee that the Company could reduce its costs at the same pace as revenue declined leading to a reduction in operating profits; 21 Table of Contents • over-building in one or more sectors of the hotel industry and/or in one or more geographic regions, could lead to excess supply compared to demand, and to decreases in hotel occupancy and/or room rates; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • changes in travel patterns; • changes in governmental regulations that influence or determine wages, prices or construction costs; • other unpredictable external factors, such as acts of God, war, terrorist attacks, epidemics, airline strikes, transportation and fuel price increases and severe weather, may reduce business and leisure travel; • increases in the cost of human capital, energy, healthcare, insurance and other operating expenses resulting in lower operating margins; • the financial condition of franchisees and travel related companies; • franchisors’ ability to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees; and • changes in exchange rates or sustained recessionary periods in the U.S. (affecting domestic travel) and internationally could also unfavorably impact future results. The current general economic recession and the slowdown in the lodging industry may impact our financial results and growth. The present economic recession and the uncertainty over its depth and duration is expected to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. There is a general consensus among economists that the economies of the U.S., Europe and much of the rest of the world are in a recession, and we are experiencing reduced demand for the hotel rooms of our franchisees. Accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic slowdown and we expect that our future financial results and growth will be further harmed while the recession continues. Continuing economic and credit market conditions may result in a reduction in the number of new franchise agreements. Based on the uncertainty around the current economic and credit market conditions and the reduced volume of franchise applications received by us in the fourth quarter of 2008, we expect the number of applications received and therefore the number of new franchise agreements executed to again decline in 2009. We believe this trend is likely to continue while the lodging industry experiences negative operating conditions and the availability of hotel financing continues to be limited. During prior lodging industry down turns, we have experienced an increase in the number of new domestic franchise agreements from conversion hotels. While we believe that a greater percentage of new contracts will result from conversion hotel agreements, the length and breadth of the current economic crisis and the disruption of the credit markets could result in fewer conversion and new construction hotel contracts in the future. This trend could have a material adverse affect on our financial results. New branded hotel products that we have launched or may launch in the future may not be successful. We have recently and may in the future launch additional branded hotel products. We cannot assure that these brands will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees or the traveling public, that we will recover the costs incurred in developing these brands or that the brands will be successful. 22 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity, epidemics and war. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters and/or epidemics, terrorist activities and acts of war affecting locations where we have a high concentration of franchisees and areas of the world from which our franchisees draw a large number of guests. Some types of losses, such as from terrorism and acts of war may be either uninsurable or too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may not grow our franchise system or we may lose business by failing to compete effectively. Our operational and growth prospects depend on the strength and desirability of our brands. We believe that hotel operators choose lodging franchisors based primarily on the value and quality of each franchisor’s brand and services, the extent to which affiliation with that franchisor may increase the hotel operator’s reservations and profits, and the franchise fees charged. Demographic, economic or other changes in markets may adversely affect the desirability of our brands and, correspondingly, the number of hotels franchised under the Choice brands. We compete with other lodging companies for franchisees. As a result, the terms of new franchise agreements may not be as favorable as our current franchise agreements. This competition may reduce or change fee structures, or make greater use of financial incentives such as loans and guarantees to acquire franchisees. This may potentially cause us to respond by charging lower fees or increasing our use of financial incentives, which may impact our margins. New competition may emerge using different business models with a lesser reliance on franchise fees. In addition, an excess supply of hotel rooms or unfavorable borrowing conditions may discourage potential franchisees from constructing new hotels, thereby limiting a source of growth of the franchise fees received by us. In addition, each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains in national and international markets and with independent companies in regional markets. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing our products and services from those offered by our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, this could adversely affect our market share and our results of operations. We may not achieve our objectives for growth in the number of franchised hotels. The number of properties and rooms franchised under our brands significantly affects our results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels: • the ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to a Choice brand, include, among others: • the availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel; • the cost and availability of suitable hotel locations; • the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; • cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which construction can be delayed due to, among other reasons, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and • securing required governmental permits. 23 Table of Contents • our ability to continue to enhance our reservation, operational and service delivery systems to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner; • our formal impact policy, which offers franchisees protection from the opening of a same-brand property within a specified distance, may adversely impact our growth potential; • the effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization; • our failure to introduce new brands that gain market acceptance, may adversely impact our unit growth potential; • our dependence on our independent franchisees’ skills and access to financial resources necessary to open the desired number of hotels; and • our ability to attract and retain qualified domestic and international franchisees. Contract terms for new hotel franchises may be less favorable. The terms of the franchise agreements for new or conversion hotels are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors at the time these agreements are entered into. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that contracts for new hotel franchises entered into or renewed in the future will be on terms that are as favorable to us as those under our existing agreements. Under certain circumstances our franchisees may terminate our franchise contracts. We franchise hotels to third parties pursuant to franchise agreements. These agreements may be terminated, renegotiated or expire but typically have an initial term of either 10 or 20 years. These agreements also contain provisions permitting the franchisee to terminate their agreement after five, ten or fifteen years under certain circumstances and depending on the particular hotel brand that is licensed to the franchisee. While our franchise agreements provide for liquidated damages to be paid to us by franchisees whose agreements have been terminated as the result of a violation of the provisions of the agreement, these damage amounts are typically less than the fees we would have received if the terminated franchisee fulfilled its contractual obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace expired or terminated franchise agreements, or that the provisions of renegotiated or new agreements will be as favorable as the provisions that existed before such expiration, replacement or renegotiation. Deterioration in the general financial condition of our franchisees may adversely affect our results. Our operating results are impacted by the ability of our franchisees to generate revenues at properties they franchise from us. An extended period of occupancy or room rate declines may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees. The hotel industry is highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the level of service, quality of accommodations, convenience of locations and room rates. Our franchisees compete for guests with other hotel properties in their geographic markets. Some of their competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than our franchisees, and they may construct new facilities or improve their existing facilities, reduce their prices or expand and improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our franchisees operating results and financial condition. These factors, among others, could adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of our franchisees and result in declines in the number of franchised properties and/or franchise fees and other revenues derived from our franchising business. In addition, at times, the Company provides financial support to our franchisees via notes and guarantees. Factors that may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of these franchisees may result in the Company incurring losses related to this financial support. 24 Table of Contents Increasing use of internet reservation channels may decrease loyalty to our brands or otherwise adversely affect us. A significant percentage of hotel rooms are booked through internet travel intermediaries. If such bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from our franchisees or us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality at the expense of brand identification. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations systems rather than to our lodging brands. If this happens our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. We have established agreements with many key third party websites to limit transaction fees for hotels but we currently do not have agreements with several large internet travel intermediaries. We are dependent upon our employees’ ability to manage our growth. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts and skills of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. We and our franchisees are reliant upon technology. The lodging industry depends upon the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for reservation systems, property management, procurement, operation of our customer loyalty programs and administrative systems. The operation of many of these systems is dependent upon third party data communication networks and software upgrades, maintenance and support. These technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs for such technology. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Further, there can be no assurance that disruptions of the operation of these systems will not occur as a result of failures related to our internal or third party systems and support. Our international operations are subject to special political and monetary risks. We have franchised properties open and operating in over 30 countries and territories outside of the United States. We also have investments in foreign hotel franchisors. International operations generally are subject to political and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. In certain countries, these risks include the risk of war or civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization. In addition, the laws of some international jurisdictions do not adequately protect our intellectual property and restrict the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the right and ability of non-U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, revenues from international jurisdictions typically are earned in local currencies, which subjects us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. We are subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to the following risks, among others: • the risk that cash flows from operations or available lines of credit will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest when due; 25 Table of Contents • the risk that (to the extent we maintain floating rate indebtedness) interest rates increase; • our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if required; • the availability and cost of capital may limit our ability to refinance our existing revolving debt obligations; and • our existing debt agreements contain covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, sell assets or engage in mergers. If we do not comply with these covenants, or do not repay our debt on time, we would be in default under our debt agreements. Unless any such default is waived by our lenders, the debt could become immediately payable and this would have a material adverse impact on us. While we currently maintain an investment grade credit rating by both of the major rating agencies, there can be no assurance we will be able to maintain this rating. In the event of a downgrade in our credit rating, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs. Anti-takeover provisions may prevent a change in control. Our restated certificate of incorporation, the staggered terms of our board of directors and the Delaware General Corporation Law each contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a party to acquire, and may discourage a party from attempting to acquire control of our Company without approval of our board of directors. These provisions could discourage tender offers or other bids for our common stock at a premium over market price. The concentration of share ownership may influence the outcome of certain matters. The concentration of share ownership by our directors and affiliates allows them to substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. As a result, acting together, they may be able to control or substantially influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the elections of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as equity compensation plans. Government regulation could impact our business. The Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could impact our business. There can be no assurance that the periodic evaluation of our internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will not result in the identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that our auditors will be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply may have consequences on our business including, but not limited to, increased risks of financial statement misstatements, SEC sanctions and negative capital market reactions. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution or the ultimate outcome of litigation filed by or against us, including, remedies or damage awards. This litigation may include, but is not limited to, actions or negligence by franchisees outside of our control. We are not liable for the actions of our franchisees; however, there is no guarantee that we would be insulated from liability in all cases, especially if there are changes in current interpretations of law. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We rely on our systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation systems. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the systems’ function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. The weakening of our intellectual property could impact our business. Our intellectual property is fundamental to our brands and our franchising business. We generate, maintain, license and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks and other intellectual property rights. We use our intellectual property rights to protect development activities, to protect our good name, to promote our brand name recognition, to enhance our competitiveness and to otherwise support our business goals and objectives. Our intellectual property rights, however, may be challenged, cancelled, invalidated or circumvented, or may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is not accurate or complete we could make faulty decisions. Our customers also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and in the international jurisdictions in which we operate. A theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. Instability in the credit markets may impact the ability of our franchisees to expand or construct new locations. One aspect of our growth strategy is the ability of our franchisees to expand or open new franchises and to operate those franchises on a profitable basis. Delays or failures in opening new locations could materially and adversely affect our planned growth. In recent months, the credit markets have experienced instability, resulting in declining real estate values, credit and liquidity concerns and increased loan default rates. Many lenders have 27 Table of Contents subsequently reduced their willingness to make new loans and have tightened their credit requirements. Many of our franchisees depend on the availability of financing to expand and or renovate existing locations or construct and open new hotels. If our franchisees experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing for these purposes, our growth strategy and franchise revenues may be adversely affected. Development activities that involve our co-investment or financing and guaranty support for third parties may result in exposure to losses. As a result of our program to make financial support available to multi-unit developers in the form of loans, credit support such as guarantees, and equity investment, we are subject to investment and credit risks that we would not otherwise be exposed to as a franchisor. In particular, when we make loans to franchisees, agree to provide loan guarantees for the benefit of franchisees, or make equity investments in franchisees, we are subject to all generally applicable credit and investment risks, such as (1) construction delays, cost overruns, or acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; (2) the possibility that developers could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours; and (3) that the conditions within capital markets may limit the ability of franchisees to raise additional debt or equity that may be required for completion of projects. In addition to general credit and capital market risks, we face specific risks stemming from our ability to assess the existing and future financial strength of the franchisee and its principals, the development/construction abilities of the franchisee, the expected performance of the hotel in light of the forecasted general, regional and market-specific economic climate, and the ability to negotiate for, value, and if necessary collect security for our loans or obligations. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before providing financial support, if we do not accurately assess these risks, our assumptions used to make these estimates prove inaccurate, or situations in the credit market or hospitality industry change in a manner we did not anticipate, our loans and investments may become impaired and/or we may be required to make payment under guarantees we have issued. In such instances, there is no assurance that we will be able to recover any or all of such impaired or paid amounts, in which case we will experience losses which could be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 