ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their businesses that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following: • We may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected; • Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future; • The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. These risks are present in our recently completed FDIC-assisted transactions involving our assumption of deposits and the acquisition of assets of Cowlitz Bank and Pierce Commercial Bank; • To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. • We completed two acquisitions during 2010 that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future; • We expect our net income will increase following our acquisitions, however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses and consequently our efficiency rates will also increase. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; however, if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, and our acquisitions or branching activities may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term; and • The purchase and assumption agreement and the loss sharing agreements we have entered into with the FDIC have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and real estate owned under the requirements of the loss share agreement may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to pursue a significant growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, branch 29 Table of Contents acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. See “-If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced” and “-Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us” for additional risks related to our acquisition strategy. Failure to comply with the terms of the loss share agreement with the FDIC may result in significant losses. In connection with the Cowlitz Bank Acquisition, Heritage Bank entered in to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that significantly reduces the Bank’s credit loss exposure. The purchase and assumption agreement and the loss sharing agreement for the Cowlitz Bank Acquisition has specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and REO under the requirements of the loss sharing agreement may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has had a significant impact on the bank regulatory structure for financial institutions, as well as the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. Much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act still remains to be seen in the coming months or years, as the effective dates of the many implementing regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act are gradually phased in. Among the many requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for new banking regulations is a requirement for new capital regulations to be adopted within 18 months after the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. These regulations must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. Generally, trust preferred securities will no longer be eligible as Tier 1 capital and outstanding TARP preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. In addition, the banking regulators are required to seek to make capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies, countercyclical so that capital requirements increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, effective July 21, 2011 a federal prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits was eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact our interest expense. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or CFPB, with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Banks, will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. As the Company and Banks continue to monitor developments under the Dodd-Frank Act and to assess the ultimate impact of the legislation and yet to be written implementing rules and regulations on community banks, at a minimum we expect to experience an increase in our operating and compliance costs, which is expected to continue and further impact our interest expense. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss. Repayment of our commercial business loans, consisting of commercial and industrial loans as well as owner-occupied and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We offer different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses with a focus on real estate related industries and businesses in agricultural, healthcare, legal, and other professions. The types of commercial loans offered are business lines of credit, term equipment financing and term real estate loans. We also originate loans that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, or SBA, and are a “preferred lender” of the SBA. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on our assessment of the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in 31 Table of Contents value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. In addition, as part of our commercial business lending activities, we originate agricultural loans. Payments on agricultural loans are typically dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government regulations. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. At December 31, 2011, our originated commercial business loans (consisting of commercial and industrial loans, owner-occupied commercial real estate loans and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans) totaled $691.5 million, or approximately 82.5% of our total originated loan portfolio. Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, which includes multifamily real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and multifamily real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial and multifamily real estate loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial and multifamily real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and multifamily real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2011, our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $251.0 million, or 30.0% of our total originated loan portfolio. Our real estate construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regards to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, it may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss. 32 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, our originated real estate construction and land development loans totaled $77.3 million, or 9.3% of our total originated loan portfolio. Of these loans, $22.4 million, or 2.7%, were one-to-four family residential construction related and $54.9 million, or 6.6%, were multifamily residential and commercial construction related. Approximately $8.3 million, or 10.7%, of our total originated construction loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses on our non-covered loans, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged against income, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience; • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral or discounted cash flows; and • current macroeconomic factors. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our capital. For the year ended December 31, 2011 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $14.4 million compared to $12.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The provision related to the originated portfolio was $5.2 million and $12.0 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our provision for loan losses on purchased loans was $9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. There was no provision for loan losses on purchased loans for the year ended December 31, 2010. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $16.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The net charge-offs related to the originated portfolio was $4.9 million and $16.1 million for the years ended 33 Table of Contents December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Recently, we have been experiencing decreasing loan delinquencies and decreasing loan charge-offs. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy. The deterioration in the general economy has been a significant contributing factor to our current level of delinquencies and nonperforming loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in foreclosures for one-to-four family residential construction loans, which represented 64.1% of our nonperforming originated loans at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011 our total nonperforming originated loans were $23.3 million, or 2.57% of total originated loans, compared to $26.5 million or 3.14% of total loans at December 31, 2010. Moreover, if weak economic conditions persist, we expect that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and loan charge-offs. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. The current economic condition in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington and Oregon, and a continuing decline in the economies of our primary market areas of the Pacific Northwest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, the Puget Sound and Portland, Oregon areas have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures. A series of large Pacific Northwest businesses have implemented substantial employee layoffs and scaled back plans for future growth. Additionally, acquisitions and consolidations have resulted in substantial employee layoffs, along with a significant increase in office space vacancies in downtown Seattle. The Yakima Valley has likewise seen increased unemployment and a continued decline in housing prices. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • we may increase our provision for loan losses; • demand for our products and services may decline; • collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. We cannot accurately predict the effect of the national economic recession on our future results of operations or the market price of our stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic recession, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in its local markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our common stock to decline. While it is impossible to predict how long these recessionary conditions may exist, the economic downturn could continue to present risks for some time for the banking industry and us. Further economic downturns may adversely affect our investment securities portfolio. Further deterioration in the credit markets created market volatility and illiquidity, which may result in further significant declines in the market values of a broad range of investment products. We continue to monitor our investment portfolio for deteriorating collateral values and other-than-temporary impairments. Additionally, other than temporary impairments could adversely affect our operating results. 34 Table of Contents If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced. Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. At December 31, 2011, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $13.0 million. Declines in our stock price or a prolonged weakness in the operating environment of the financial services industry may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and capital. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. The tightening of available liquidity could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, or FHLB, and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the FHLB or other wholesale funding sources. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high; further, the resulting dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point we may need to raise additional capital to support continued internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, however, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. 35 Table of Contents Our board of directors is authorized generally to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, the board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms. In addition, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected. Continued deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses of our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. At December 31, 2011, we owned $5.6 million of stock of the FHLB of Seattle. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to impairment testing. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or the FHFA, its primary regulator, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA. The potential impact of the consent order is unknown at this time. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company’s stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described in this report under the heading “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Further, recent regulatory changes to the rules for overdraft fees for debit transactions and interchange fees could reduce our fee income which would result in a reduction of our noninterest income. Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. 36 Table of Contents We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where we conduct our business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian L. Vance, and certain other employees. In this regard we are currently working with a nationally recognized community bank compensation consultant to prepare severance agreements to replace the severance agreements we previously had in place with certain of our key employees. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 