Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business and operations are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, certain risks and uncertainties. The following risks and other information in this report that is incorporated in this report by reference, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, should be carefully considered. These risks are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on may also adversely affect the Company’s business and operation. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by all these risk factors. The market price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance • Volatility of stock market prices and volumes • Rumors or erroneous information 31 Table of Contents • Changes in market valuations of similar companies • Changes in interest rates • New developments in the banking industry • Variations in quarterly or annual operating results • New litigation or changes in existing litigation • Regulatory actions • Changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies Geographical Risk The Company’s main markets are in Greene and Christian counties in southwest Missouri. Since the Company does not have significant presence in other parts of the country, a prolonged economic downturn in these markets could negatively impact the Company. Industry Risk Negative developments (beginning in the late 2007) in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, along with other factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a related significant economic downturn. This downturn has continued throughout 2008 and beyond. Declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many banks. In addition, real estate values supporting many loans have declined and may continue. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by institutions to their customers and to each other. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and other borrowings. The economic pressures and the volatility in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, result of operations and ultimately, the Company’s stock price. Regulatory Risk The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern nearly every aspect of its operations. Changes to these laws could affect the Company’s ability to deliver or expand its services and diminish the value of its business. In order to address the weakened economy, and specifically the banking sector, and also to help consumers maintain confidence in the banking system, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008. The purpose of the many aspects of this legislation is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and any other regulatory initiatives may not have the desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Troubled Asset Relief Program With regards to the securities sold to the Treasury under the CPP, if we are unable to redeem the Preferred Shares within 5 years of their issuance, the cost of this capital to us will increase significantly, from 5% per annum to 9% per annum. Depending on the Company’s financial condition at the time, the increase in the annual dividend rate on the Shares could have a material effect on our liquidity and net income available to common stockholders. The securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury limits our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock without the consent of the Treasury. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Interest Rate Risk The Company’s net interest income is the largest source of overall revenue to the Company and is mainly based on the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities, and the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rates are beyond the Company’s control, and they fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Lending Risk There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. Changes in economic conditions and changes in interest rates among other things could impact borrowers’ capabilities to repay the Company outstanding loans. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is dependent on real estate. The weakened real estate market has and may continue to increase our level non-performing loans. While we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate as of December 31, 2008, as additional facts become known about relevant internal and external factors that affect loan collectability and our assumptions, it may result in the Bank making additions to the provision for loan loss during 2009. For a complete discussion of the risk elements of the Company’s loan portfolio, please refer to page 7. Litigation Risk From time to time, the Company is subject to claims and litigation from customers and other individuals. Whether such claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial performance. Employment Risk The Company’s success depends significantly on our Bank officers, especially executive officers Shaun A. Burke, Carter M. Peters and H. Michael Mattson. Because we do not have employment agreements or non-compete agreements with our officers or employees, they are free to resign at any time and accept an employment offer from another company, including a competitor. The unexpected loss of key officers may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. 33 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 