Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We expect our potential obligations under the guarantees rendered in connection with the Transeastern Joint Venture or any settlement thereof will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations and could cause defaults under our financing documents. We received demand letters from the administrative agent for the lenders to the Transeastern JV demanding payment under the Completion Guarantees and Carve-Out Guarantees. The demand letters allege that potential defaults and events of default have occurred under the credit agreements and that such potential defaults or events of default have triggered our obligations under the Guarantees. The lenders claim that our guarantee obligations equal or exceed all of the outstanding obligations under each of the credit agreements and that we are liable for default interest, costs and expenses. If our obligations under the Completion Guarantees have been triggered to the extent alleged by the lenders, we would be responsible for the payment and discharge of all “project costs” (as such term is defined in the Completion Guarantees) and for paying, bonding or otherwise removing any mechanics’ liens that may be filed with respect to a project. In addition, we would be responsible for completing or causing the completion of all “development activities” (as such term is defined in the Completion Guarantees) with respect to a project. If our obligations under the Carve-Out Guarantees have been triggered to the extent claimed by the lenders, we would be required to indemnify the lenders for any liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, charges, expenses and disbursements of fraud or material misrepresentation by any of the borrowing entities; misappropriation by the borrowing entities of certain payments; improper use of insurance proceeds; intentional misconduct or waste with respect to the collateral; and/or failure to maintain insurance or pay taxes. The other members of the joint venture also executed carve out guarantees; however, if it is determined that the lenders’ losses are a result of our acts or omissions, we must indemnify the other member for any damages under the guarantees. In addition, the mezzanine lenders have asserted that under the Carve-Out Guarantees they can trigger full recourse liability against the Company by exercising certain rights that would allow those lenders to acquire control of the mezzanine borrowers. The mezzanine lenders have further asserted that if they do so, a voluntary bankruptcy filing by the operating company of the Transeastern JV, at the ultimate direction of the mezzanine lenders, would trigger full recourse liability against the Company. The Company disputes that a voluntary bankruptcy filed at the direction of the mezzanine lenders, either directly or indirectly, would trigger full recourse liability. As a result of these and other factors, during the year ended December 31, 2006, we evaluated the recoverability of our investment in the joint venture under APB 18 and determined our investment to be fully impaired. As of December 31, 2006, we wrote-off $145.1 million related to our investment in the Transeastern JV, which included $31.3 million of member loans receivable and $21.4 million of receivables for management fees, advances and interest due to us from the joint venture. Our write-off of $145.1 million is included in loss from joint ventures in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. We are in settlement discussions with representatives of the lenders to the Transeastern JV. Our settlement proposal contemplates paying the joint venture’s $400.0 million of senior debt in full via the incurrence of additional indebtedness. A settlement with the joint venture’s mezzanine lenders, if one is reached, could result in, among other things, the issuance of equity and/or debt securities by us or one of our subsidiaries, including the joint venture. We are also in discussions regarding the joint venture’s obligations with respect to terminating the joint venture’s rights under option contracts and obligations under completion guarantees and construction obligations. Any settlements are likely to involve our having to incur additional indebtedness which could, among other things, reduce our ability to incur indebtedness in the future. While we remain committed to working with all interested parties to achieve a consensual global resolution, settlement discussions are ongoing and we may be unable to agree to a settlement with the lenders or other parties, including obtaining necessary consents and financings. Even if a settlement is reached, we cannot predict the outcome of any such settlement, including the cash or other contributions we may have to make in order to effectuate any such settlement if there is one at all. In accordance with SFAS 5 and other authoritative guidance, we have evaluated whether any amount should be accrued in connection with a proposed settlement in connection with a potential restructuring of the Transeastern JV as discussed above. Accordingly, we have accrued $275.0 million (reflecting our estimate of the low end of the range of a potential loss as determined by taking the difference between the estimated fair market value of the consideration we expect to pay in connection with the global settlement less the estimated fair market value of the business we would acquire pursuant to our proposal) which is presented as a separate line item in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 and is included in accounts payable and other liabilities in our consolidated statement of financial condition as of December 31, 2006. Our estimated loss could change as a result of changes in settlement offers and a change in the estimated fair value of the business to be acquired. 16 Table of Contents No assurance can be given as to what amounts would have to be ultimately paid in any settlement if one can be reached at all. If a settlement is not reached, we could become liable for the repayment of all of the joint venture’s $625.0 million of bank debt and other amounts associated therewith. If we become liable under some or all of the guarantees, it may have a material adverse affect on our business and liquidity and defaults under documents governing our existing indebtedness could occur which may require us to consider all of our alternatives in restructuring our business and our capital structure. We may incur significant damages and expenses due to the purported class action complaints that were filed against us and certain of our officers. Beginning in December 2006, various stockholder plaintiffs brought punitive class action lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The actions allege that we and certain of our current and former officers violated the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by failing to disclose: • certain guaranties entered into by us in connection with the Transeastern JV and related potential liability; • declining conditions in the housing market in Florida; and, • that as a consequence of market declines, we could lose value in our investment in the joint venture. One of the complaints also alleges that the defendants violated the Securities Act of 1933 by omitting material facts about the financing of the acquisition from the offering materials related to our September 2005 offering of common stock. Plaintiffs in each of these actions seek compensatory damages, plus fees and costs, on behalf of themselves and the putative class of purchasers of our common stock and purchasers and sellers of options of our common stock. We may be unable to successfully resolve these disputes without incurring significant expenses. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The homebuilding industry is experiencing deteriorating conditions that may continue for an indefinite period and may further adversely affect our business and results of operations compared to prior periods. In 2006, the U.S. homebuilding industry as a whole experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. Although we operate in a number of markets, 50% of our operations are concentrated in Florida and Arizona, which suffered a particularly severe downturn in home buying activity. The rapid increase in new and existing home prices in these markets over the past several years reduced housing affordability and tempered buyer demand. In particular, investors and speculators reduced their purchasing activity and instead stepped up their efforts to sell the residential property they had earlier acquired. These trends resulted in overall fewer home sales, greater cancellations of home purchase agreements by buyers, higher inventories of unsold homes and the increased use by homebuilders, speculators, investors and others of discounts, incentives, advertising expenses, broker commissions and price concessions to close home sales compared to the past several years all of which negatively impacted margins. Reflecting these demand and supply trends, we, like many other homebuilders, experienced a large drop in net new sales orders, a reduction in our margins, slower price appreciation for new homes sold, higher incentives and in some cases price declines. The homebuilding market may not improve in the near future, and it may weaken further. Continued weakness in the homebuilding market would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations as compared to those of earlier periods. Changes in economic or other business conditions could cause our current and proposed levels of debt to adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations. We currently have a significant amount of debt, which is likely to increase as a result of the resolution of the claims related to the Transeastern JV. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance. Numerous factors outside of our control, including changes in economic or other business conditions generally, or in the markets or industry in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, which in turn may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2006, on a consolidated basis, we had approximately $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding (excluding obligations for inventory not owned of $338.5 million and the impact of original issue discounts and premiums), all of which matures in the years 2010 through 2015. As of December 31, 2006, we would have had the ability to borrow an additional $275.2 million under our revolving credit facility, subject to our satisfying the relevant borrowing conditions in that facility. Our availability under the revolving credit 17 Table of Contents facility would have been $478.8 million on December 31, 2006, had all mortgage requirements been satisfied. In addition, subject to restrictions in our financing documents, we may incur additional debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to restructure or refinance our debt, seek additional equity financing or sell assets. We may be unable to restructure or refinance our debt, obtain additional equity financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms or at all. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and borrowings may not be available to us under our $800.0 million credit facility and other bank loans in an amount sufficient to pay our debt service obligations or to fund our other liquidity needs. Should this occur, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Our bond indentures and our $800.0 million credit facility and other bank loans include financial and other covenants and restrictions, including covenants to report quarterly and annual financial results and restrictions on debt incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us. Should we not comply with these restrictions or covenants, the holders of those debt instruments or the banks, as appropriate, could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity or they could demand that we compensate them for waiving instances of noncompliance. Any refinancing of our existing debt or the instruments governing our future debt, including debt incurred in connection with any settlement of the disputes regarding the Transeastern JV, could be governed by documents containing less favorable covenants and financial terms than our current financing. Our debt instruments impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs and pursue business opportunities, thereby limiting our growth. The indentures governing our outstanding notes and our revolving credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • create or permit certain liens, other than customary and ordinary liens; • sell assets other than in the ordinary course of our business; • invest in joint ventures above the amounts established in such instruments; • create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into other companies or sell all or substantially all of our assets. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, make acquisitions, or pursue available business opportunities. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants, the indentures governing our outstanding notes require us to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth, and our warehouse lines of credit require us to maintain the collateral value of our borrowing base. We may be required to take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives to meet these ratios and satisfy these covenants. A breach of any of the covenants in, or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios under, our revolving credit facility and warehouse lines of credit would prevent us from borrowing additional money under those facilities and could result in a default under those facilities and our other debt obligations. Our failure to maintain the specified minimum consolidated net worth under the indentures will require us to offer to purchase a portion of our outstanding notes. If we fail to purchase these notes, it would result in a default under the indentures and may result in a default under other debt facilities. We are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance of our subcontractors, which, if unavailable, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Subcontractors perform substantially all of our construction work. As a consequence, we depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors for the construction of our homes. There may not be sufficient availability of and satisfactory performance by these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules relating to the consolidation of assets associated with option contracts and joint ventures, or a change in the interpretation or application of such rules, could adversely affect our financial condition and limit our use of such arrangements, which could impact our future growth. We use option contracts and joint ventures to help us acquire attractive land positions, mitigate and share the risk associated with land ownership and development, increase our return on equity, and extend our capital resources. Under current accounting rules, the assets and liabilities associated with certain of these option contracts and joint ventures may not be required to be consolidated in our financial statements. A change in accounting rules, or a change in the interpretation or application of such rules, to require the consolidation of the assets and liabilities associated with these off-balance sheet arrangements could negatively affect our leverage ratios and could limit our future growth. In the event that tax liabilities arise in connection with the October 2003 restructuring, there can be no assurance that we will not be liable for such amounts. Prior to a restructuring transaction which occurred in October 2003, Technical Olympic, Inc., which we refer to as Technical Olympic, was the parent of our consolidated tax reporting group, and we were jointly and severally liable for any U.S. federal income tax owed by Technical Olympic or any other member of the consolidated group. As part of the restructuring, Technical Olympic was merged into TOI, LLC, a newly-formed limited liability company of which we are the sole member, and we became the parent of our consolidated tax reporting group. Also, as part of the restructuring, Technical Olympic Services, Inc., which we refer to as TOSI, a newly-formed corporation wholly-owned by Technical Olympic S.A., assumed all liabilities of Technical Olympic. We do not believe that any material tax liabilities will arise by reason of the restructuring. However, there can be no assurance that material tax liabilities will not arise in connection with the restructuring, that we will not be held liable for such amounts or that we will be able to collect from TOSI any amounts for which they may have assumed liability. The assessment of material tax liabilities in connection with the restructuring could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected by natural disasters or weather conditions. Homebuilders are particularly subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions as they can delay our ability to timely complete or deliver homes, damage the partially complete or other unsold homes that are in our inventory, negatively impact the demand for homes, and/or negatively affect the price and availability of qualified labor and materials. Our operations are located in many areas that are especially subject to natural disasters; for example, we have significant operations in Florida which is especially at risk of hurricanes. To the extent that hurricanes, severe storms, floods, tornadoes or other natural disasters or similar weather events occur, our business may be adversely affected. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses resulting from these events, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Technical Olympic S.A., our majority stockholder, can cause us to take, or prevent us from taking, actions without the approval of the other stockholders and may have interests that could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Technical Olympic S.A. currently owns approximately 67% of the voting power of our common stock. As a result, Technical Olympic S.A. has the ability to control the outcome of virtually all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of a majority of our directors, the approval of any merger, and other significant corporate actions. Technical Olympic S.A. may authorize actions or have interests that could conflict with those of our other stockholders. Control of our company by Technical Olympic S.A. and/or our issuance of preferred stock could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us. Through its ownership of voting control of our common stock, Technical Olympic, S.A. can prevent a change in control of us and may be able to prevent or discourage certain other transactions, such as tender offers or stock repurchases, that could give holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discourage bids for the common stock at a premium over the market price, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our common stock price has been and could continue to be volatile. Our common stock price has been, and could continue to be, volatile. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Factors that affect the market price of our common stock include: • our failure to resolve, or the terms of a resolution of , the claims against us related to the Transeastern JV; • our failure to obtain adequate financing for a Transeastern JV resolution; • the limited amount of our common stock held by non-affiliates; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • general conditions in the homebuilding industry; • changes in the market’s expectations about our earnings; • changes in financial estimates, recommendations and ratings by securities analysts and credit agencies concerning our company or the homebuilding industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or majority stockholder, Technical Olympic, S.A., or the perception that such sales could occur; and • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to substantial risks with respect to the land and home inventories we maintain, and fluctuations in market conditions may affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, if at all, which would reduce our profit margins. As a homebuilder, we must constantly locate and acquire new tracts of land for development and developed homesites to support our homebuilding operations. There is a lag between the time we acquire land for development or developed homesites and the time that we can bring the communities to market and sell homes. Lag time varies on a project-by-project basis; however, historically, we have experienced a lag time of up to three years. As a result, we face the risk that demand for housing may decline or costs of labor or materials may increase during this period and that we will not be able to dispose of developed properties or undeveloped land or homesites acquired for development at expected prices or profit margins or within anticipated time frames or at all. The market value of home inventories, undeveloped land, and developed homesites can fluctuate significantly because of changing market conditions. In addition, inventory carrying costs (including interest on funds used to acquire land or build homes) can be significant and can adversely affect our performance. Because of these factors, we may be forced to sell homes or other property at a loss or for prices that generate lower profit margins than we anticipate. We may also be required to make material write-downs of the book value of our real estate assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles if values decline. Changes in the mortgage market could adversely impact us by increasing the supply of inventory housing, negatively impacting pricing conditions, as well as decreasing the demand for our homes, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Approximately 90% our customers finance their purchases through mortgage financing obtained from us or other sources. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage funds provided or sponsored by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Administration, or the Veteran’s Administration could cause a decline in the market for new homes as potential homebuyers may not be able to obtain affordable financing. In particular, because the availability of mortgage financing is an important factor in marketing many of our homes, any limitations or restrictions on the availability of those types of financing could reduce our home sales and the lending volume at our mortgage subsidiary. Increased interest rates can also limit our ability to realize our backlog because our sales contracts typically provide our customers with a financing contingency. Financing contingencies allow customers to cancel their home purchase contracts in the event they 20 Table of Contents cannot arrange for financing. Even if our potential customers do not need financing, changes in interest rates and mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes to potential buyers who need financing. Interest rates currently are at one of their lowest levels in decades, and any future increases in interest rates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In 2006, approximately 3-5% of the homebuyers that utilized our mortgage subsidiary obtained sub-prime loans. We define a sub-prime loan as one where the buyer’s FICO score is below 620 and is not an FHA or VA loan. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 5-7% of our backlog that utilized our mortgage subsidiary included homebuyers seeking sub-prime financing. Recent initiatives to tighten the underwriting standards of the sub-prime market could make mortgage funds less available to these customers in our backlog, as well as decrease future demand from these buyers. Additionally, we do not know the impact that the tightening of credit standards in the sub-prime market will have on the Alt-A and prime loans. To the extent that underwriting standards tighten up for this portion of our customer base and limit the availability of this type of mortgage financing, demand from this customer base could be reduced which would adversely impact our revenues. Supply risks and shortages relating to labor and materials can harm our business by delaying construction and increasing costs. The homebuilding industry from time to time has experienced significant difficulties with respect to: • shortages of qualified trades people and other labor; • inadequately capitalized local subcontractors; • shortages of materials; and • volatile increases in the cost of certain materials, including lumber, framing, roofing, and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. These difficulties can, and often do, cause unexpected short-term increases in construction costs and cause construction delays. In addition, to the extent our subcontractors incur increased costs associated with increases in insurance premiums and compliance with state and local regulations, these costs are passed on to us as homebuilders. We are generally unable to pass on any unexpected increases in construction costs to those customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those contracts generally fix the price of the house at the time the contract is signed, which may be up to one year in advance of the delivery of the home. Furthermore, sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our profit margins. We have historically been able to offset sustained increases in the costs of materials with increases in the prices of our homes and through operating efficiencies. However, in the future, pricing competition may restrict our ability to pass on any additional costs, and we may not be able to achieve sufficient operating efficiencies to maintain our current profit margins. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could increase our costs, reduce our revenues, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete in each of our markets with numerous national, regional and local builders. Some of these builders have greater financial resources, more experience, more established market positions and better opportunities for land and homesite acquisitions than we do and have lower costs of capital, labor and material than us. Builders of new homes compete for homebuyers, as well as for desirable properties, raw materials and skilled subcontractors. The competitive conditions in the homebuilding industry could, among other things: • increase our costs and reduce our revenues and/or profit margins; • make it difficult for us to acquire suitable land or homesites at acceptable prices; • require us to increase selling commissions and other incentives; • result in delays in construction if we experience a delay in procuring materials or hiring laborers; and • result in lower sales volumes. We also compete with resales of existing homes, available rental housing and, to a lesser extent, condominium resales. An oversupply of attractively priced resale or rental homes in the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our absorption rates and profitability. Our financial services operations are also subject to competition from third party providers, many of which are substantially larger, may have a lower cost structure and may focus exclusively on providing such services. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could adversely affect our results of operations. As a homebuilder, we are subject in the ordinary course of our business to liability and home warranty claims. We provide our homebuyers with a limited warranty that provides a one-year or two-year limited warranty covering workmanship and materials and a five to ten-year limited warranty covering major structural defects. Claims arising under these warranties and general liability claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. Although we maintain liability insurance, the coverage offered by, and availability of, liability insurance for construction defects is currently limited and, where coverage is available, it may be costly. We currently have liability insurance coverage which covers repair costs associated with warranty claims for structure and design defects related to homes sold by us during the policy period, subject to a significant self-insured retention per occurrence. However, our insurance coverage may contain limitations with respect to coverage, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all liability and warranty claims for which we may be liable. In addition, coverage may be further restricted and become more costly. Although we generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, we may be unable to enforce any such contractual indemnities. Uninsured and unindemnified liability and warranty claims, as well as the cost of insurance coverage, could adversely affect our results of operations. States, cities, and counties in which we operate have, or may adopt, slow or no growth initiatives that would reduce our ability to build in these areas and could adversely affect our future revenues. Several states, cities, and counties in which we operate have approved, and others in which we operate may approve, various “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to build and sell homes in the affected markets and create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our future revenues. Our business is subject to governmental regulations that may delay, increase the cost of, prohibit or severely restrict our development and homebuilding projects. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and homebuilding process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density, building design, elevation of properties, water and waste disposal, and use of open spaces. In addition, we and our subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations relating to workers health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of the markets in which we operate, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy saving construction materials and give commitments to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We must also obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to complete residential development or home construction. The laws and regulations under which we and our subcontractors operate, and our and their obligations to comply with them, may result in delays in construction and development, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other increased costs, and prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in certain areas in which we operate. Our financial services operations are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to administrative enforcement actions, the suspension or loss of required licenses, and claims for monetary damages. Our title insurance agency subsidiaries must comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations. Our mortgage financing subsidiary must comply with applicable real estate lending laws and regulations. In addition, to make it possible for purchasers of some of our homes to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct those homes in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies. The mortgage financing and title insurance subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states regarding mortgage financing, homeowners’ insurance, and title insurance agencies. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, forms of policies, and premiums. 22 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements This annual report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including in the material set forth in the sections entitled “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These statements concern expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts, and typically include the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “estimate”, “project”, and “future.” Specifically, this annual report contains forward-looking statements including with respect to: • our expectations regarding population growth and median income growth trends and their impact on future housing demand in our markets; • our expectation regarding the impact of geographic and customer diversification; • our expectations regarding our successful implementation of our asset management strategy and its impact on our business; • our belief that homes in premier locations will continue to attract homebuyers in both strong and weak economic conditions; • our expectations regarding future land sales; • our belief regarding growth opportunities within our financial services business; • our estimate that we have adequate financial resources to meet our current and anticipated working capital, including our annual debt service payments, and land acquisition and development needs; • the impact of inflation on our future results of operations; • our expectations regarding our ability to pass through to our customers any increases in our costs; • our expectations regarding our continued use of option contracts, investments in land development joint ventures; • our expectations regarding the housing market in 2007; and • our expectations regarding our use of cash in operations. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. As a result, actual results may differ significantly from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The most important factors that could prevent us from achieving our goals, and cause the assumptions underlying forward-looking statements and the actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by those forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • our significant level of debt and the impact of the restrictions imposed on us by the terms of this debt; • our ability to borrow or otherwise finance our business in the future; • our ability to identify and acquire, at anticipated prices, additional homebuilding opportunities and/or to effect our growth strategies in our homebuilding operations and financial services business; • our relationship with Technical Olympic S.A. and its control over our business activities; • economic or other business conditions that affect the desire or ability of our customers to purchase new homes in markets in which we conduct our business, such as increases in interest rates, inflation, or unemployment rates or declines in median income growth, consumer confidence or the demand for, or the price of, housing; • events which would impede our ability to open new communities and/or deliver homes within anticipated time frames and/or within anticipated budgets; • our ability to successfully enter into, utilize, and recognize the anticipated benefits of, joint ventures and option contracts; 23 Table of Contents • a decline in the value of the land and home inventories we maintain; • an increase in the cost of, or shortages in the availability of, qualified labor and materials; • our ability to successfully dispose of developed properties or undeveloped land or homesites at expected prices and within anticipated time frames; • our ability to compete in our existing and future markets; • the impact of hurricanes, tornadoes or other natural disasters or weather conditions on our business, including the potential for shortages and increased costs of materials and qualified labor and the potential for delays in construction and obtaining government approvals; • an increase or change in government regulations, or in the interpretation and/or enforcement of existing government regulations; and the impact of any or all of the above risks on the operations or financial results of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Availability of Reports and Other Information Our corporate website is www.tousa.com. We make available, free of charge, access to our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on our website under “Investor Information – SEC Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not part of this document. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC Staff”) conducted a review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006 and issued a letter commenting on certain aspects of these reports. We believe that all matters addressed in the comment letters and our subsequent responses to these letters and discussions with the SEC Staff have been resolved with the exception of certain disclosures related to the Transeastern JV. The SEC Staff is questioning whether a material uncertainty existed related to the Transeastern JV on August 8, 2006, the filing date of our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006, that would have required additional disclosures. We believe that our disclosures made related to the Transeastern JV were appropriate and that a material uncertainty did not exist as of August 8, 2006 that would have required additional disclosures in our Form 10-Q. This unresolved comment has no effect on our previously reported consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our discussions with the SEC Staff on this matter have not been concluded. 