ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference herein. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, and also adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FUNDING OR OBTAIN FUNDING ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS BECAUSE OF THE DETERIORATION OF THE CREDIT AND CAPITAL MARKETS. THIS MAY HINDER OR PREVENT US FROM MEETING OUR FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to grow our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUTSTANDING INDEBTEDNESS, AND WE MAY NEED TO PAY OR REFINANCE OUR EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS OR INCUR ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $52.3 including capital lease obligations. Total indebtedness on that date included $36.0 million in borrowings under a term loan incurred under our senior credit facility (see MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—SENIOR CREDIT FACILITY and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). It also included $12.8 million of indebtedness outstanding under various subordinated promissory notes payable to certain former owners of acquired companies. 15 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility consisting of $20.0 million (available amount limited to eligible accounts receivable and inventories adjusted for letters of credit outstanding and other contingencies was $7.6 million) under the working capital revolving line of credit. Our substantial levels of indebtedness and our other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due, in respect of our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms, or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior credit facility, are at variable rates of interest; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing. In November 2009, we disclosed that we had not remained in compliance with certain of the financial covenants contained in our senior credit facility. We obtained a waiver of a financial covenant in the senior credit facility for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2009. Without this waiver and other modifications, we would not have been in compliance with certain of our financial covenants at September 30, 2009. We were in compliance with the covenants under the senior credit facility as of December 31, 2009, but at this time it is uncertain whether the covenants, specifically the leverage ratio covenant, will be met at March 31, 2010 and thereafter. If we are unable to comply with our covenants at March 31, 2010 or in the future, we believe that it is probable that we would be able to cure covenant violations by obtaining waivers from our lenders to cure a default, although we can give no assurances that any waiver or amendment will be entered into, or on terms acceptable to us. If we were not able to comply with our covenants in the future, and we were not able to obtain waivers from our lenders to cure a default, our lenders would have the right to demand acceleration of payment on all amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. Our failure to comply with any of our other covenants under the senior credit facility could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and debt service capabilities. Even though the lenders under the senior credit facility have demonstrated their willingness to work with us in amending or providing sufficient waivers to our facility, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments in the future. If we were unable to obtain such waivers or amendments from the lenders, we would likely seek to replace or pay off the senior credit facility with new secured debt, unsecured debt or equity financing. However, there also can be no assurance that such debt or equity financing would be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we fail to make any required payments under our credit instruments, or if we fail to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants included in those instruments, we will be in default under their terms. The 16 Table of Contents lenders under the senior credit facility or the note holders could then accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets that may secure such indebtedness. If our creditors accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our debt obligations. THE CURRENT FINANCIAL AND CREDIT MARKET ENVIRONMENT MAY LIMIT THE FUTURE LEVEL OF EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION INVESTMENT BY OUR CUSTOMERS. Recent events experienced in the global financial and credit markets have had a significant impact on the availability of credit and the overall costs at which funds can be obtained. These factors coupled with the significant reduction in commodity prices, which has contributed to lower cash flow generation for a number of exploration and production companies, could contribute to a material decline in our customers’ spending levels. The reduction in the level of future investment, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS OF OUR CUSTOMERS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, our customers may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, if customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for services may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ASSET IMPAIRMENTS. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment for impairment. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our equipment if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. The recent decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If we are forced to write down the value of our equipment, these noncash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussion of “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” included in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” BECAUSE WE HAVE NO PLANS TO PAY ANY DIVIDENDS FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE, INVESTORS MUST LOOK SOLELY TO STOCK APPRECIATION FOR A RETURN ON THEIR INVESTMENT IN US. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements and other factors that our Board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. OUR OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO DELAYS RELATED TO OBTAINING LAND ACCESS RIGHTS OF WAY FROM THIRD PARTIES WHICH COULD AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to obtain timely right of way usage from both public and private land and/or mineral owners. In recent years, it has become more 17 Table of Contents difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights of way as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas, and landowners have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property. Delays associated with obtaining such rights of way could negatively affect our results. INDUSTRY VOLATILITY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The demand for our services depends on the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies for developmental construction and these expenditures are critical to our operations. The levels of such capital expenditures are influenced by the following factors: • oil and gas prices and industry perceptions of future price levels and demand; • the cost of exploring for, producing and developing oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate capital; • the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States; • the availability of current geophysical data; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • local and international political and economic conditions; and • government regulations. The cyclical nature of the oil and gas industry has a significant effect on our revenues and profitability. Historically, prices of oil and gas, as well as the level of exploration and developmental activity, have fluctuated substantially. This has, in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business. We are unable to predict future oil and gas prices or the level of oil and gas industry activity. A prolonged low level of activity in the oil and gas industry will likely depress development activity, adversely affecting the demand for our products and services and our financial condition and results of operations. OUR GROWTH AND GROWTH STRATEGY INVOLVES RISKS. We have grown over the last several years through internal growth and acquisitions of other companies. It will be important for our future success to manage our growth and this will require increased responsibility for management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • the lack of sufficient executive-level personnel; • the successful integration of the operations and management teams from our recent acquisitions; • increased levels of debt and administrative burdens; and • increased logistical problems of large, expansive operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. THE DANGERS INHERENT IN OUR OPERATIONS AND THE POTENTIAL LIMITS ON INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN RISKS COULD EXPOSE US TO POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY COSTS. Our operations, and to a significant degree our seismic operations, are subject to risks or injury to personnel and loss of equipment. Our crews often conduct operations in extreme weather, in difficult terrain that is not easily accessible, and under other hazardous conditions. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection. However, we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. 18 Table of Contents WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY. We compete with several other providers of seismic drilling, permitting, survey and environmental and other services. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. Our revenues and earnings may be affected by the following factors: • changes in competitive prices and availability of trained personnel; • fluctuations in the level of activity and major markets; • general economic conditions; and • governmental regulation. Additionally, in certain geographical areas, some of our competitors operate more crews than we do and may have substantially greater financial and other resources. These operators could enjoy an advantage over us if the competitive environment for contract awards shifts to one characterized principally by intense price competition. SEASONALITY AND ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS IN THE REGIONS IN WHICH WE OPERATE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are directly affected by the weather conditions in the Gulf of Mexico. Due to seasonal differences in weather patterns, we may operate more days in the spring, summer and fall periods and less in the winter months. The seasonality of oil and gas industry activity in the Gulf Coast region also affects our operations. Due to exposure to weather, we generally experience higher drilling activity in the spring, summer and fall months with the lowest activity in winter months, especially with respect to our operations in the mountainous regions of the western United States. The rainy weather, hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast throughout the year may also affect our operations. As a result, full-year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends on, among other things, the continued active participation of our executive officers and certain of our other key operating personnel. Our officers and personnel have extensive experience in the domestic and international oilfield services industry. The loss of the services of any one of these persons could impact adversely our ability to implement our expansion strategy. WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL EXPENDITURES TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our seismic and environmental operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and cease and desist orders. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, operations in wetlands, the handling of explosives and hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Although our cost of compliance with such laws has to date been immaterial, such laws frequently change. Accordingly, it is impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws on our future operations. We are also required by various governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates. To date, we believe that we possess all permits, licenses and certificates material to the operation of our business. The loss of any of the licenses required for our operation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on demand for our services from the oil and gas industry, and this demand may be affected by changing tax laws and oil and gas regulations. As a result, the adoption of laws that curtail oil and gas production in our areas of operation may adversely affect us. We cannot determine to what extent our operations may be affected by any new regulations or changes in existing regulations. 19 Table of Contents ONE STOCKHOLDER HAS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR AFFAIRS. Dennis R. Sciotto beneficially owns approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Sciotto represents and controls The Dennis R. Sciotto Family Trust and was appointed to the Board of Directors in 2005. As a result, Mr. Sciotto has the ability to substantially influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. This may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation. FUTURE TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES COULD IMPAIR OPERATING ASSETS OR REQUIRE SUBSTANTIAL UNBUDGETED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. We compete in providing services in a capital intensive business. The development of seismic data acquisition and processing equipment has been characterized by rapid technological advancements in recent years, and this trend may continue. Manufacturers of seismic equipment may develop new systems that have competitive advantages over systems now in use that could render our current equipment obsolete or require us to make significant unplanned capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. Under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain necessary financing on favorable terms. OUR OPERATIONS DEPEND ON A FEW SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS. We derive a significant amount of our revenue from a small number of geophysical companies. Our inability to continue to perform services for a number of our large existing customers, if not offset by sales to new or other existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. For example, our largest customers (those which individually accounted for more than 10% of revenue in a given year) collectively accounted for 11% (one customer), 21% (two customers), and 12% (one customer) of revenue for fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. OUR BACKLOG MAY NOT BE TIMELY CONVERTED INTO REVENUE IN ANY PARTICULAR FISCAL PERIOD. Our backlog represents those seismic drilling and survey projects for which a customer has hired us and has scheduled a start date for the project. Backlog levels vary during the year depending on weather, the timing of the completion of certain contracts and when we are awarded new contracts. Projects currently included in our backlog, at the option of the customer, are subject to termination or delay without penalty, which could substantially reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and consequently, the conversion of that backlog into revenue. UNFAVORABLE RESULTS OF LITIGATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Management currently believes that resolving any of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. The litigation and claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. IF WE BREACH ANY OF THE MATERIAL FINANCIAL COVENANTS UNDER OUR VARIOUS INDEBTEDNESS, OR IF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT IS DECLARED WITH RESPECT TO ANY SUCH INDEBTEDNESS, OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS COULD BE ACCELERATED. If we breach any of the material financial covenants under our various indebtedness, or if an event of default is declared with respect to any such indebtedness, our substantial debt service obligations could be accelerated. In the event of any such simultaneous acceleration, we would not be able to repay all of the indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS HIGHLY VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile. Factors, including announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies, regulatory matters, new or existing products or procedures, concerns about our financial position, operating results, litigation, government regulation, developments or disputes relating to agreements, patents or proprietary rights, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, potential dilutive effects of future sales of shares of common stock by our shareholders and by us could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. THE HIGH FIXED COSTS OF OUR OPERATIONS COULD RESULT IN OPERATING LOSSES. Our business has high fixed costs. As a result, any significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could adversely affect our results of operations. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. In the future, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting may result in errors or omissions in our periodic filings which may require us to amend our prior filings. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer reevaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls as they relate to accounting for income taxes at December 31, and concluded that our controls and procedures were not effective due to a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. CERTAIN OF OUR FACILITIES COULD BE DAMAGED BY HURRICANES AND OTHER NATURAL DISASTERS, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005 and 2008, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced operations; costs associated with resuming operations; reduced demand for our services from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. THE ADOPTION OF CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION OR REGULATIONS RESTRICTING EMISSIONS OF “GREENHOUSE GASES” COULD RESULT IN INCREASED OPERATING COSTS AND REDUCED DEMAND FOR THE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WE PROVIDE. On June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” (ACESA), which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program in the United States to reduce emissions of 21 Table of Contents “greenhouse gases” (GHGs), including carbon dioxide and methane that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. ACESA would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17 percent (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80 percent by 2050. Under ACESA, covered sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, natural gas and NGLs. The United States Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACESA, the two versions of the bill would need to be reconciled in both chambers of Congress and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. President Obama has indicated that he is in support of the adoption of legislation to control and reduce emissions of GHGs through an emission allowance permitting system that results in fewer allowances being issued each year but that allows parties to buy, sell and trade allowances as needed to fulfill their GHG emission obligations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require our customers to incur increased operating costs. Increased operating costs could cause our customers to decrease their spending levels. The reduction in level of investment by our customers, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE. There is a belief that emissions of greenhouse gases may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impact and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our services, including costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, pay any taxes related to GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program, higher insurance premiums or the potential for increased insurance claims in areas affected by adverse weather and coastal regions in the event of rising sea levels, the demand for and consumption of our services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS NONE. 