Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, and that such factors may adversely affect our business and financial status and therefore the value of your investment: Risks Relating to Our Business Any global systemic political, economic and financial crisis or catastrophic natural disasters (as well as the indirect effects flowing therefrom) could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In recent times, several major systemic economic and financial crises and natural disasters negatively affected global business, banking and financial sectors, including the semiconductor industry and markets. These types of crises cause turmoil in global markets that often result in declines in electronic products sales from which we generate our income through our products and services. In addition, these crises may cause a number of indirect effects such as undermining the ability of our customers to remain competitive vis-à-vis the financial and economic challenges created by insolvent countries and companies still struggling to survive in the wake of these crises. For example, there could be in the future knock-on effects from these types of crises on our business, including significant decreases in orders from our customers; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. Any future systemic political, economic or financial crisis or catastrophic natural disaster (as well as the indirect effects flowing from these crises or disasters) could cause revenues for the semiconductor industry as a whole to decline dramatically, and if the economic conditions or financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional accounting related allowances may be required in the future and such additional allowances could increase our operating expenses and therefore reduce our operating income and net income. Thus, any future global economic crisis or catastrophic natural disaster (and their indirect effects) could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 4 Table of Contents Since we are dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor and electronics industries, which have experienced significant and sometimes prolonged periods of downturns and overcapacity, our revenues, earnings and margins may fluctuate significantly. The electronics industries and semiconductor market are cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. Our semiconductor foundry business is affected by market conditions in such highly cyclical electronics and semiconductor industries. Most of our customers operate in these industries. Variations in order levels from our customers may result in volatility in our revenues and earnings. From time to time, the electronics and semiconductor industries have experienced significant and sometimes prolonged periods of downturns and overcapacity. Any systemic economic, political, or financial crisis, such as the one that occurred in 2008-2009, could create significant volatility and uncertainty within the electronics and semiconductor industries which may disrupt traditional notions of cyclicality within such industries. As such, the nature, extent and scope of such periods of downturns and overcapacity may vary drastically in accordance with the degree of volatility of market demand. Because we are, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of electronics and semiconductor companies for our services, periods of downturns and overcapacity in the general electronics and semiconductor industries could lead to reduced demand for overall semiconductor foundry services, including our services. If we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, our revenues, margin and earnings will suffer during periods of downturns and overcapacity. Furthermore, due to the increasingly complex technological nature of our foundry services, the amount of our accounting provisions may also need to be provided and adjusted for potential sales returns and allowances to customers that may adversely affect the results of our operations. Decreases in demand and average selling prices for products that contain semiconductors may adversely affect demand for our products and may result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings. A vast majority of our revenue is derived from customers who use our services in communication devices, personal computers, consumer electronics products and industrial/standard products. Any decrease in the demand for any one of these products may decrease the demand for such other products as well as overall global semiconductor foundry services, including our services and may adversely affect our revenues. Further, because we own most of our manufacturing capacities, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed. In general, these costs do not decline when customer demand or our capacity utilization rates drop, and thus declines in customer demand, among other factors, may significantly decrease our margins. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, which can improve our margins. In addition, the historical and current trend of declining average selling prices (or “ASP”) of end use applications places downward pressure on the prices of the components that go into such applications. If the ASP of end use applications continues decreasing, the pricing pressure on components produced by us may lead to a reduction of our revenues, margin and earnings. In light of the rise of new foundry service providers worldwide, if we are unable to compete effectively in the highly competitive foundry segment of the semiconductor industry, we may lose customers and our profit margin and earnings may decrease. The markets for our foundry services are highly competitive. We compete with other foundry service providers, as well as integrated device manufacturers that devote a significant portion of their manufacturing capacity to foundry operations. Some of these companies may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than us, such as the possibility of receiving direct or indirect government bailout/economic stimulus funds or other incentives that may be unavailable to us. Our competition may, from time to time, also decide to undertake aggressive pricing initiatives in one or more technology nodes. Increases in these competitive activities may decrease our customer base, or our ASP, or both. For example, over the past few years, we have seen the rise of certain firms with the capability of providing foundry services. These firms are committed to try to attract our customers. If we are unable to compete with any and each of these new competitors with better technologies and manufacturing capacity and capabilities, we risk losing customers to these new contenders. If we are unable to remain a technological leader in the semiconductor industry or if we are unable to timely respond to fast-changing semiconductor market dynamics, we may become less competitive. The semiconductor industry and its technologies are constantly changing. We compete by developing process technologies using increasingly advanced nodes and on manufacturing products with more functions. We also compete by developing new derivative technologies. If we do not anticipate these changes in technologies and rapidly develop new and innovative technologies, or our competitors unforeseeably gain sudden access to additional technologies, we may not be able to provide foundry services on competitive terms. In addition, our customers have significantly decreased the time in which their products or services are launched into the market. If we are unable to meet these shorter product time-to-market, we risk losing these customers. These factors have also been intensified by the shift of the global technology market to consumer driven products such as mobile devices, and increasing concentration of customers and competition (all further discussed among these risk factors). These challenges also place greater demands on our research and development capabilities. If we are unable to innovate new technologies that meet the demands of our customers or overcome the above factors, our revenues may decline significantly. Although we have concentrated on maintaining a competitive edge in research and development, if we fail to achieve advances in technologies or processes, or to obtain access to advanced technologies or processes developed by others, we may become less competitive. 5 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our capacity and the streamlining of our production facilities effectively, our competitiveness may be weakened. We perform long term market demand forecasts to estimate general economic and market conditions for our products and services. Based upon these estimates, we manage our overall capacity in accordance with market demand. Because market conditions may vary significantly and unexpectedly, our market demand forecast may change significantly at any time. Further, since certain manufacturing lines or tools in some of our manufacturing facilities may be suspended or shut down temporarily during periods of decreased demand, we may not be able to ramp up in a timely manner during periods of increased demand. During periods of continued decline in demand, our operating facilities may not be able to absorb and complete in a timely manner outstanding orders re-directed from shuttered facilities. Recently, we have been adding capacity to our 300mm wafer fabs in the Hsinchu Science Park, Southern Taiwan Science Park and Central Taiwan Science Park, based on our market demand forecasts taking into account the demand forecasts of our customers. As a result, our total monthly capacity for 300mm wafer fabs was increased from 366,800 wafers as of December 31, 2012 to 414,700 wafers as of December 31, 2013. Expansion and modification of our production facilities will, among other factors, increase our costs. For example, we will need to purchase additional equipment, train personnel to operate the new equipment or hire additional personnel. If we do not increase our net revenue accordingly, in order to offset these higher costs, our financial performance may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — Capacity Management and Technology Upgrade Plans” for a further discussion. We may not be able to implement our planned growth or development if we are unable to obtain sufficient financial resources to meet our future capital requirements. Capital requirements are difficult to plan in the highly dynamic, cyclical and rapidly changing semiconductor industry. From time to time and increasingly so for the foreseeable next few years, we will continue to need significant capital to fund our operations and manage our capacity in accordance with market demand. Our continued ability to obtain sufficient external financing is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: — our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flow; — general market conditions for financing activities; — market conditions for financing activities of semiconductor companies; and — social, economic, financial, political and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere. Sufficient external financing may not be available to us on a timely basis, on reasonable market terms, or at all. As a result, we may be forced to curtail our expansion and modification plans or delay the deployment of new or expanded services until we obtain such financing. We may not be able to implement our planned growth and development or maintain our leading position if we are unable to recruit and retain qualified executives, managers and skilled technical and service personnel. We depend on the continued services and contributions of our executive officers and skilled technical and other personnel. Our business could suffer if we lose, for whatever reasons, the services and contributions of some of these personnel and we cannot adequately replace them. We may be required to increase or reduce the number of employees in connection with any business expansion or contraction in accordance with market demand for our products and services. Since there is intense competition for the recruitment of these personnel, we cannot ensure that we will be able to fulfill our personnel requirements in a timely manner during an economic upturn. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost equipment currently proven and existing that are necessary for us to remain competitive. Our operations and ongoing expansion plans depend on our ability to obtain an appropriate amount of equipment and related services from a limited number of suppliers in a market that is characterized from time to time by limited supply and long delivery cycles. During such times, supplier-specific or industry-wide lead times for delivery can be as long as six months or more. To better manage our supply chain, we have implemented various business models and risk management contingencies with suppliers to shorten the procurement lead time. We also provide our projected demand for various items to many of our equipment suppliers to help them plan their production in advance. We have purchased used tools and continue to seek opportunities to acquire relevant used tools. Further, the growing complexities especially in next-generation lithographic technologies may delay the timely availability of the equipments and parts needed to exploit time sensitive business opportunities and also increase the market price for such equipment and parts. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner to fulfill our customers’ orders, or at a reasonable cost, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our revenue and profitability may decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner and at reasonable prices. Our production operations require that we obtain adequate supplies of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases, chemicals, and photoresist, on a timely basis. In the past, shortages in the supply of some materials, whether by specific vendors or by the semiconductor industry generally, have resulted in occasional industry-wide price adjustments and delivery delays. Also, since we procure some of our raw materials from sole-source suppliers, there is a risk that our need for such raw materials may not be met or that back-up supplies may not be readily available. Our revenue and earnings could decline if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of the necessary raw materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of raw materials that we cannot pass on to our customers. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs uses a substantial portion of our production capacity, we will not be able to service our other customers. According to our agreement with the Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan, or ITRI, the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the R.O.C., or an entity designated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, has an option to purchase up to 35% of certain of our capacity, if our outstanding commitments to our customers are not prejudiced. Although the Ministry of Economic Affairs has never exercised this option, if this option is exercised to any significant degree during tight market conditions, we may not be able to provide services to all of our other customers unless we are able to increase our capacity accordingly or outsource such increased demand in a timely manner. Any inability to obtain, preserve, enforce, defend and protect our technologies and intellectual property rights and third-party licenses could harm our competitive position. Our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future growth will depend in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio. While we actively obtain, preserve, enforce, defend and protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our proprietary technologies, trade secrets, software or know-how. Also, we cannot assure you that, as our business or business models expand into new areas, or otherwise, we will be able to develop independently the technologies, trade secrets, patents, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without unknowingly infringing the intellectual property rights of others. As a result, we may have to rely increasingly on licensed technologies and patent licenses from others. To the extent that we rely on licenses from others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any or all of the necessary licenses in the future on terms we consider reasonable or at all. The lack of necessary licenses could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunctions from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have contractually agreed to indemnify our customers against damages resulting from infringement claims. We have received, from time-to-time, communications from third parties asserting that our technologies, manufacturing processes, the design of the integrated circuits made by us or the use by our customers of semiconductors made by us may infringe upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. Because of the nature of the industry, we may continue to receive such communications in the future. In some instances, these disputes have resulted in litigation. Recently, there has been a notable increase in the number of claims or lawsuits initiated by certain patent assertion entities and these entities are also becoming more aggressive in their monetary demands and requests for court-issued injunctions. Such lawsuits or claims may increase our cost of doing business and may potentially be extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services. If we fail to obtain or maintain certain government, technologies or intellectual property licenses and, if litigation relating to alleged intellectual property matters occurs, it could prevent us from manufacturing or selling particular products or applying particular technologies, which could reduce our opportunities to generate revenues. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of loss due to explosion and fire because some of the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly combustible. We and many of our suppliers use highly combustible and toxic materials in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from explosion, fire, or environmental influences which cannot be completely eliminated. Although we maintain many overlapping risk prevention and protection systems, as well as comprehensive fire and casualty insurance, including insurance for loss of property and loss of profit resulting from business interruption, our risk management and insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. If any of our fabs or vendor facilities were to be damaged, or cease operations as a result of an explosion, fire, or environmental influences, it could reduce our manufacturing capacity and may cause us to lose important customers, thereby having a potentially adverse and material impact on our financial performance. Any impairment charges may have a material adverse effect on our net income. Under IFRSs, we are required to evaluate our investments, tangible assets and intangible assets for impairment whenever triggering events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge. We are also required under IFRSs to evaluate goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis or more frequently whenever triggering events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired and the carrying value may not be recoverable. For example, we hold investments in certain publicly listed and private companies, some of which have incurred certain impairment charges as discussed further in our financial statements. We are not able to estimate the extent or timing of any impairment charge for future years. Any impairment charge required may have a material adverse effect on our net income. The determination of an impairment charge at any given time is based significantly on our expected results of operations over a number of years subsequent to that time. As a result, an impairment charge is more likely to occur during a period when our operating results are otherwise already depressed. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Reviews and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies And Judgments” for a discussion of how we assess if an impairment charge is required and, if so, how the amount is determined. Having one or more large customers that account for a significant percentage of our revenues may render us vulnerable to the loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more large customers that could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Over the years, our customer profile and the nature of our customers’ business have changed dramatically. While we generate revenue from hundreds of customers worldwide, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 60% and 62% of our net revenue in 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our largest customer accounted for 17% and 22% of our net revenue in 2012 and 2013, respectively. This customer concentration results in part from the changing dynamics of the electronics industry with the structural shift to mobile devices and applications and software that provide the content for such devices. There are only a limited number of customers who are successfully exploiting this new business model paradigm. Also, in order to respond to the new business model paradigm, we have seen the nature of changes in our customers’ business models. For example, there is a growing trend toward the rise of system houses that operate in a manner which make their products and services more marketable in a changing consumer market. The loss of, or significant curtailment of purchases by, one or more of our top customers, including curtailments due to increased competitive pressures, industrial consolidation, a change in their designs, or change in their manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer or distributor inventory adjustments, or change in our major customers’ business models may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and corruption, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We are required to comply with various R.O.C. and U.S. laws and regulations on internal controls. For example, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on our internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, R.O.C. law requires us to establish internal control systems that would reasonably ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are also required under R.O.C. law to file an internal control declaration within four months of the end of each fiscal year. 8 Table of Contents Internal controls may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, fraud or corruption. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and ADSs. Our global manufacturing, design and sales activities subject us to risks associated with legal, political, economic or other conditions or developments in various jurisdictions, including in particular the R.O.C., which could negatively affect our business and financial status and therefore the market value of your investment. The majority of our principal executive officers and our principal production facilities are located in the R.O.C., and a substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from our operations in the R.O.C. In addition, we have operations worldwide and a significant percentage of our revenue comes from sales to locations outside the R.O.C. Operating in the R.O.C. and overseas exposes us to changes in policies and laws, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, in the various countries in which we operate, which could result in an adverse effect on our business operations in such countries and our results of operations as well as the market price and the liquidity of our ADSs and common shares. For example, even though the R.O.C. and the PRC have co-existed for more than six decades and significant economic and cultural relations have been established during that time, the financial markets have viewed certain past developments in relations between the two sides as occasions to depress general market prices of the securities of Taiwanese companies, including our own. In addition, the R.O.C. government has not lifted some trade and investment restrictions imposed on Taiwanese companies on the amount and types of certain investments that can be made in Mainland China. In addition to the above factors, future expansions of our operations in Taiwan will likely be handicapped by the limited availability of commercial-use land, industrial-quantities of natural resources such as water (needed for our foundry processes) and experienced human resources. Our operational results could also be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or interruptions in the supply of utilities (such as water or electricity), in the locations in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate. The frequency and severity of natural disasters has been increasing. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural disasters, such as severe weather, flooding, earthquakes and tsunamis, as well as interruptions or shortages in the supply of utilities, such as water and electricity, which could disrupt operations. We have operations in earthquake-prone locations and any major natural disaster occurring in any such locations may cause severe disruptions to our business operations and financial performance. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. For example, most of our production facilities, as well as those of many of our suppliers and customers and upstream providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, are located in Taiwan and Japan, which are susceptible to earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, typhoons, and droughts from time to time. In addition, we have occasionally suffered power outages or surges in Taiwan caused by difficulties encountered by our electricity supplier, the Taiwan Power Company, or other power consumers on the same power grid, which have resulted in interruptions to our production schedule. While our business continuity management and emergency response plans are intended to prevent or minimize losses in the future, there is no assurance that the measures will fully eliminate the losses or the insurance will fully cover any losses. One or more natural disasters or interruptions to the supply of utilities that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may adversely affect the results of our operations and financial conditions. 9 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with applicable environmental and climate related laws and regulations, as well as international laws, regulations and accords to which we are subject, could also harm our business and operational results. The manufacturing, assembling and testing of our products require the use of metals, chemicals, minerals and materials that are subject to environmental, climate-related, health and safety and humanitarian, conflict-free sourcing laws, regulations and guidelines issued worldwide. For example, the U.S. SEC implemented the final rule mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to require companies to publicly disclose their use of conflict minerals that originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country. We take our responsibility to comply with applicable legal requirements on conflict minerals very seriously. For further information about our conflict mineral status under applicable U.S. SEC law, please see our Form SD to be filed with the U.S. SEC. (After the filing of this document, please also visit our Corporate Social Responsibility section of our website at www.tsmc.com for further details about our conflict-free status). The final applicable legal rule as well as non-binding guidelines on conflict minerals imposes substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that conflict minerals originates from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, adjoining countries or any geographic territory that may be specified by the relevant authorities at a future date. These new rules and verification requirements, which apply to our activities in 2013 and beyond, impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers and may limit the sources or increase the prices of materials used in our products. Further, if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free under applicable law or non-binding guidelines or if we are unable to comply with any material provisions of such laws or guidelines, we may face challenges with our customers that place us at a significant competitive disadvantage, and our goodwill and reputation may be irreparably damaged. Often times, our customers have imposed upon us legally non-binding conditions or guidelines on sourcing conflict minerals that exceed those imposed under relevant legal requirements. For example, many of our customers have been asking us to apply the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. These guidelines while legally non-binding may impose requirements that well exceed those mandated by applicable law. If we agree to apply these guidelines as requested by our customers, there is the risk that the prices we charge for our products and services will increase (to reflect the added cost in complying with such conditions or guidelines), resulting in the loss of actual and potential customers. Conversely, any failure on our part to comply with such customer-imposed legally non-binding conditions or guidelines may result in us suffering significant competitive harms such as the loss of actual or potential customers that will likely have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Although we may be eligible for various exemptions and/or extensions of time for compliance, our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: — significant penalties and legal liabilities, such as the denial of import permits; — the temporary or permanent suspension of production of the affected products; — unfavorable alterations in our manufacturing, fabrication and assembly and test processes; — loss of actual or potential sales contracts in case we are unable to satisfy the conditions regarding conflict-free minerals sourcing laws or requirements by our customers; and — restrictions on our operations or sales. Existing and future environmental and climate related laws and regulations as well as applicable international accords to which we are subject, could also require us, among other things, to do the following: (a) purchase, use or install expensive pollution control, reduction or remediation equipment; (b) implement climate change mitigation programs and “abatement or reduction of greenhouse gas emissions” programs, or “carbon credit trading” programs; (c) modify our product designs and manufacturing processes, or incur other significant expenses associated with such laws and regulations such as obtaining substitute raw materials or chemicals that may cost more or be less available for our operations. It is still unclear whether such necessary actions would affect the reliability or efficiency of our products and services. Any of the above contingencies resulting from the actual and potential impact of local or international laws and regulations, as well as international accords on environmental or climate change, could harm our business and operational results by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. For further details, please see our compliance record with Taiwan and international environmental and climate related laws and regulations in “Item 4. Information on the Company — Environmental Regulations”. 10 Table of Contents Climate change, other environmental concerns and green initiatives also present other commercial challenges, economic risks and physical risks that could harm our operational results or affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Increasing climate change and environmental concerns could affect the results of our operations if any of our customers request that we provide products and services that exceed any existing standard(s) of environmental compliance. For example, we have been working on an on-going basis with our suppliers, customers, and several industry consortia to develop and provide products that are compliant with the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (“RoHS”). Even though we are entitled to rely on various exemptions under RoHS, some of our customers may request that we provide products that exceed the legal standard set by RoHS without using any of the exemptions still permitted under RoHS. If we are unable to offer such products or offer products that are compliant, but are not as reliable due to the lack of reasonably available alternative technologies or materials, we may lose market share to our competitors. Further, energy costs in general could increase significantly due to climate change and other regulations. Therefore, our energy costs may increase significantly if utility or power companies pass on their costs, either fully or partially, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission caps and carbon credit trading programs. For further details, please see details of our business continuity management of climate change policy in “Item 4. Information on the Company — Environmental Regulation”. To mitigate risks resulting from climate change, we continue to actively carry out energy conservation measures and voluntary perfluorinated compounds (PFC) emission reduction projects, and conduct greenhouse gas inventories verification every year. Since 2005, we have publicly disclosed climate change information every year through participation in the annual survey conducted by the nonprofit carbon disclosure project, which includes greenhouse gas emission and reduction information for all of our fabs. Adverse fluctuations in exchange rates could decrease our operating margin. Over one-half of our capital expenditures and manufacturing costs are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily in U.S. dollars, Japanese yen and Euros. In 2013, more than 90% of our revenue were denominated in U.S. dollars and currencies other than NT dollars. Therefore, any significant fluctuation to our disadvantage in such exchange rates would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. For example, during the period from September 1, 2010 to December 30, 2010, the U.S. dollar depreciated 8.9% against the NT dollar, which had a negative impact on our results of operations. Specifically, based on our 2013 results, every 1% depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the NT dollar exchange rate may result in approximately 0.4 percentage point decrease in our operating margin. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar may affect the U.S. dollar value of our common shares and the market price of the ADSs and of any cash dividends paid in NT dollars on our common shares represented by ADSs. Please see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a further discussion on the possible impact of other market factors on our results of operations. Fluctuations in inflationary and deflationary market expectations could negatively affect costs of and demand for our products and services, which may harm our financial results. The world economy is becoming more vulnerable to sudden unexpected fluctuations in inflationary and deflationary market expectations and conditions. For example, certain structural changes that resulted from the global financial crisis in 2008-2009 and EU sovereign debt crises, such as highly accommodative monetary policies by major central banks worldwide, may cause variations in the expectation of inflation or deflation. Both high inflation and deflation adversely affect an economy, at both the macro and micro levels, by reducing economic efficiency, disrupting saving and investment decisions and reducing the efficiency of the market prices as a mechanism to allocate resources. Such fluctuations may negatively affect the costs of our operations and the business operations of our customers who may be forced to plan their purchases of our goods and services within an uncertain macro and micro economy. Therefore, the demand for our products and services could unexpectedly fluctuate severely in accordance with market and consumer expectations of inflation or deflation. Please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Reviews and Prospects — Inflation & Deflation” for a further discussion. Amendments to existing tax regulations or new tax legislation in the R.O.C. may have an adverse effect on our net income. While we are subject to tax laws and regulations in various jurisdictions in which we operate or conduct business, our principal operations are conducted in the R.O.C. and we are exposed primarily to taxes levied by the government of the R.O.C. Any changes of tax laws and regulations in this jurisdiction could affect our effective tax rate and profitability of our operating results. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Reviews and Prospects — Taxation” for further discussion of significant tax regulation changes. 11 Table of Contents If certain of our strategic investments fail to achieve their respective forecasted returns or objectives, we may suffer financial losses that may materially lower our profit margin and distributable earnings. From time to time, we have made or will make a series of strategic investments that serve two major purposes. Firstly, some of our major strategic investments were (or will be) made to help us open new sources of revenues and innovate alternative business models that target to generate additional shareholders’ value going forward in the future. For example, in order to help us grow into next generation business areas, we have invested to develop potential businesses in solid state lighting, solar power and other renewable sources of energy. We believe these investments into these areas will generate new sources of revenues as the gradual transition into consuming cleaner sources of power is generally expected. For further information on these investments, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Our Subsidiaries and Affiliates”. Secondly, some of our significant strategic investments were (or will be) made to help us grow our existing business by augmenting key technology development. For example, to accelerate the development of next-generation lithographic technology, in August 2012, TSMC joined the ASML Holding N.V. Customer Co-Investment Program (along with other major technology firms). The program’s scope includes development of extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography technology and 450-millimeter (450mm) lithography tools. Under the agreement with ASML Holding N.V. (“ASML”), TSMC invested EUR838 million to acquire 5% of ASML’s equity and has committed EUR276 million, to be spread over five years, to ASML’s research and development program. As a result, we are exposed to share price fluctuations arising from the investment in ASML. In the future, we may make more strategic investments in various forms, whether through stock purchases, assets purchases, licensing of major intellectual property rights, joint investments or research and development projects, outright mergers and acquisitions, private equity transactions and other similar transactions. Any such investment will incur risks, which may result in losses if not carefully managed. Any such loss resulting from such investments may result in significant impairment charges, lower profit margin and ultimately lower distributable earnings. Risks Relating to Ownership of ADSs Your voting rights as a holder of ADSs will be limited. Holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) evidencing ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to the common shares represented by these ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of our ADS deposit agreement. The deposit agreement provides that, upon receipt of notice of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary bank will, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the holders (i) the notice of the meeting sent by us, (ii) voting instruction forms and (iii) a statement as to the manner in which instructions may be given by the holders. ADS holders will not generally be able to exercise the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities on an individual basis. According to the provisions of our ADS deposit agreement, the voting rights attaching to the deposited securities must be exercised as to all matters subject to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner, except in the case of an election of directors. Election of directors is by means of cumulative voting. See “Item 10. Additional Information — Voting of Deposited Securities” for a more detailed discussion of the manner in which a holder of ADSs can exercise its voting rights. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. Under our ADS deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”), with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. Although we may be eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions for rights offerings by certain foreign companies, we can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have such a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. If the depositary bank is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 12 Table of Contents The value of your investment may be reduced by possible future sales of common shares or ADSs by us or our shareholders. One or more of our existing shareholders may, from time to time, dispose of significant numbers of our common shares or ADSs. For example, the National Development Fund of Taiwan, R.O.C. which owned 6.4% of TSMC’s outstanding shares as of February 28, 2014, has from time to time in the past sold our shares in the form of ADSs in several transactions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of ADSs or common shares, or the availability of ADSs or common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of ADSs or common shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the prevailing market price of our ADSs or common shares. The market value of our shares may fluctuate due to the volatility of, and government intervention in, the R.O.C. securities market. The Taiwan Stock Exchange experiences from time to time substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities. There are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In response to past declines and volatility in the securities markets in Taiwan, and in line with similar activities by other countries in Asia, the government of the R.O.C. formed the Stabilization Fund, which has purchased and may from time to time purchase shares of Taiwan companies to support these markets. In addition, other funds associated with the R.O.C. government have in the past purchased, and may from time to time purchase, shares of Taiwan companies on the Taiwan Stock Exchange or other markets. These funds have disposed and may from time to time dispose shares of Taiwan companies so purchased at a later time. In the future, market activity by government entities, or the perception that such activity is taking place, may take place or has ceased, may cause fluctuations in the market prices of our ADSs and common shares. 