Item 1A. Risk Factors We May Be Unable to Return to Profitability or Raise Additional Capital We recorded net losses of $38.1 million in fiscal 2004, $32.1 million in fiscal 2005 and $3.6 million in fiscal 2006 and an accumulated deficit of $103.5 million as of December 31, 2006. We may not achieve revenue growth, generate positive cash flows or return to profitability in the future. We have entered into long-term leases for many of our restaurants, which limits our ability to either close individual restaurant locations (without significant continuing liabilities) or improve their operating cash flow. Our current credit facility also limits our ability to build new restaurants, which has contributed to our decision to slow down our future development plans and develop a revised plan to improve our core business through improving our comparable restaurant sales and margins. Failure to achieve these objectives may limit our future growth, cause our stock price to decline and make it difficult to raise additional capital. Restrictive Covenants in Our Credit Facility Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Business Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requirements that we comply with certain financial ratios. These covenants limit our ability to take various actions without the consent of our lender, including the incurrence of additional debt, the guaranteeing of certain indebtedness and engaging in various types of transactions, including mergers and sales of assets, paying dividends and making distributions or other restricted payments, including investments. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, failure to maintain the covenants required by our credit facility could result in acceleration of our indebtedness under the credit facility. Our inability in the future to comply with the covenant requirements under the credit facility and to obtain a waiver of such violations could impair our liquidity and limit our ability to operate. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our credit facility, covenant requirements and effects on our business. 8 Table of Contents We May be Unable to Fund Our Significant Future Capital Needs and We May Need Additional Funding Sooner Than Anticipated We will need substantial capital to finance our operations and expansion plans, including funds for capital expenditures, pre-opening costs and potential initial operating losses related to new restaurant openings. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. If adequate funds are not available, we will have to curtail projected growth, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Moreover, if we issue additional equity securities, the holdings of existing shareholders may be diluted. Although we expect that borrowings under our credit facility, combined with other resources, will be sufficient to fund our capital requirements at least through fiscal 2007, this may not be the case. Our credit facility limits our capital expenditures in future years, including a maximum of $13 million in fiscal 2007, subject to the satisfaction of certain bank covenants. We may be required to seek additional capital earlier than anticipated if: • future actual cash flows from operations fail to meet our expectations; • costs and capital expenditures for new restaurant development exceed anticipated amounts; • landlord contributions, loans and other incentives are lower than expected; • the costs of the SEC investigation and other related litigation exceed anticipated amounts; • we were to acquire an additional concept or company or pursue other strategic ventures; • we are required to reduce prices to respond to competitive pressures; or • we are unable to achieve the required bank covenants. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our historical and anticipated capital needs. We May Be Unable to Maintain Favorable Comparable Restaurant Sales Results Improvements in comparable restaurant sales are a key measure of financial health for our overall company as well as for our individual restaurants. We experienced a decline in comparable restaurant sales in each year from fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2004 for our Buca di Beppo restaurants. Although we experienced an increase in comparable restaurant sales for Buca di Beppo in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006, we may not see improvements in comparable restaurant sales in the future. If we are unable to achieve and maintain positive comparable restaurant sales, we may continue to experience operating losses or negative cash flows and we may close those restaurants, which could result in significant exit costs, including lease termination costs. See Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the lease termination costs that we incurred in fiscal 2005 and 2006. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected if We Are Unable to Expand in a Timely and Profitable Manner During fiscal 2005, we opened one new restaurant and closed a total of three. During fiscal 2006, we did not open any new restaurants and, in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we closed one restaurant. This reflects a reduction in our expansion activities relative to our history. We intend to resume openings and are working toward opening one new restaurant in fiscal 2007 and three to five new restaurants in fiscal 2008. To grow successfully through new restaurant additions, we must open new Buca di Beppo restaurants on a timely and profitable basis. We have experienced delays in restaurant openings from time to time and may experience delays in the future. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our ability to expand successfully will depend on a number of factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, including the: • identification and availability of suitable restaurant sites; • competition for restaurant sites; 9 Table of Contents • negotiation of favorable leases; • timely development in certain cases of commercial, residential, street or highway construction near our restaurants; • management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; • securing of required governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly Paisano Partners and Chef Partners; • competition in new markets; • limitations under our credit facility; and • general economic conditions. In addition, we may enter new markets in which we have no operating experience. These new markets may have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful in these new markets than in our existing markets. Insurers Could Deny or Rescind Coverage for the Securities Litigation Filed Against Us which Could Result in a Significant Uninsured Loss A civil action has been filed against us asserting claims under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seeking compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, plus an award of attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation, and the total costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, however, the plaintiffs are likely to seek damages in an amount that would be significant and material to us. While we have had and continue to maintain directors’ and officers’ insurance and have submitted the suit to our insurers for coverage, our insurers have reserved their rights with respect to coverage. If our insurers were to attempt to deny or rescind coverage and were ultimately successful, we could face significant legal expenses in defending the action and we would have to pay any judgment to, or settlement with, the plaintiffs from our own resources. In addition, any judgment could be in excess of our policy limits, requiring us to pay the remainder directly ourselves. Such denial, rescission or judgment in excess of the policy limits would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. An Unfavorable Finding in the Ongoing SEC Investigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us As previously disclosed, we are the subject of an ongoing SEC investigation. We have cooperated with this investigation both before and after issuance of the formal order of investigation in February 2005. We understand that the order of investigation relates to our internal controls and compliance with rules governing filings and reports, including public disclosures, required to be filed with the SEC, and the 2002 purchase of an old farmhouse in Italy known as “Villa Sermenino.” We are cooperating and assisting with the SEC’s investigation in order to bring the inquiry to a conclusion as promptly as possible. We are unable to predict the ultimate focus or outcome of the investigation, or when it will be completed. Any unfavorable finding from the SEC as a result of the investigation could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of the SEC’s investigation. Further Instances of Breakdowns in Our Internal Controls over Financial Reporting Could Have an Adverse Effect on Us We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting that is reviewed and monitored by our management and our audit committee and tested by an independent internal audit consulting firm. As of the end of fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004, our management identified certain material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. 10 Table of Contents While significant changes in executive personnel were made during fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, our company has suffered in the past from an inappropriate tone set by former senior executives and a lack of a demonstrable commitment by former senior executives to set high standards of ethics, integrity, accounting and corporate governance. Our board of directors and current management believe that these inappropriate attitudes and deeds of former senior executives led to an environment where strong systems of internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures were not supported. We have taken remedial measures to correct such control deficiencies. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that the controls will be effective in preventing fraud or material misstatement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and fraud may be easier to perpetrate on us. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information which could have a negative effect on our stock price. Competition May Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results The restaurant business is highly competitive with respect to price, service, restaurant location and food quality, and is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, economic conditions, population and traffic patterns. We compete within each market with locally owned restaurants as well as national and regional restaurant chains, some of which operate more restaurants and have greater financial resources and longer operating histories than we do. There is active competition for management personnel and for attractive commercial real estate sites suitable for restaurants. If we are unable to effectively compete within the restaurant industry, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. See “Item 1. Business—Competition” for a discussion of the competition we face. Complaints, Litigation, Governmental Investigations and the Related Adverse Publicity May Materially Adversely Affect Us We are from time to time the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. These claims may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. Three virtually identical civil actions were commenced against our company and three former officers in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota between August 7, 2005 and September 7, 2005. The three actions have been consolidated. The four lead plaintiffs filed and served a Consolidated Amended Complaint (the “Complaint”) on January 11, 2006. The Complaint was brought on behalf of a class consisting of all persons who purchased our common stock in the market during the time period from February 6, 2001 through March 11, 2005 (the “class period”). We filed a motion to dismiss the Complaint, which was granted on October 16, 2006. On December 18, 2006, the lead plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Consolidated Complaint (“Second Complaint”). The Second Complaint alleges that in press releases and SEC filings issued during the class period, defendants made materially false and misleading statements about our company’s income, revenues, and internal controls, which allegedly had the result of artificially inflating the market price for our stock. The lead plaintiffs assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and seek compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, plus an award of attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation. We have responded to the Second Complaint and have moved to dismiss it. We are not able to predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation, but it may be costly and disruptive. The total costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Federal securities litigation can result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including cash flows. 11 Table of Contents See also “—An Unfavorable Finding in the Ongoing SEC Investigation Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us” above for a description of an on-going SEC investigation. Multi-unit restaurant businesses can also be adversely affected by publicity resulting from poor food quality, food-borne illness or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. In particular, since we depend on the Buca di Beppo brand for all of our revenues, unfavorable publicity relating to one or more Buca di Beppo restaurants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional Instances of Food Borne Illnesses, Avian Flu, “Mad Cow” Disease or Other Similar Matters Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us In 2006, several nationally known restaurants experienced outbreaks of food poisoning believed to be caused by E.coli contained in the produce they used. In addition, E. coli was also reported in fresh spinach which resulted in us removing several items, including a popular salad, from our menu until we can confirm the safety of the fresh spinach we purchase. In 2004 and 2005, Asian and European countries experienced outbreaks of avian flu. Incidents of “mad cow” disease have occurred in Canadian and U.S. cattle herds. These problems, other food-borne illnesses (such as, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients and cause changes in consumer preference. As a result, our sales could decline. Instances of food-borne illnesses, real or perceived, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, could also result in negative publicity about us or the restaurant industry, which could adversely affect sales. If we react to negative publicity by changing our menu or other key aspects of the dining experience we offer, we may lose customers who do not accept those changes, and may not be able to attract enough new customers to produce the revenue needed to make our restaurants profitable. If our guests become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a change in our menu or dining experience or a temporary closure of any of our restaurants, could materially harm our business. Fluctuations in Our Operating Results May Result in Decreases in Our Stock Price Our operating results will fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including increases or decreases in comparable restaurant sales, the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses, profitability of new restaurants, timing of unexpected charges, general economic conditions, seasonality of restaurant sales, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in consumer preferences, impairment of restaurant assets, changes in interest rates, competitive factors and weather conditions. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of our historical operating results. Inflation Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results The majority of our operating expenses have increased due to inflation. Because we are in a competitive industry, we may be limited in the amount of menu prices we can increase. If we are unable to offset increases in operating expenses due to inflation, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Increased Food Costs Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results Our operating results depend in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food costs. Our agreement with DMA runs to April 2011. Any increase in distribution prices or failure to perform by DMA could 12 Table of Contents cause our food costs to increase. In addition, various factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, fluctuations in foreign currency and governmental regulation, may affect our food costs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Changes in Consumer Preferences or Discretionary Consumer Spending Could Negatively Impact Our Results Our restaurants feature Italian cuisine served primarily in small and large family-style portions. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of this type of Italian cuisine and this style of informal dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our cuisine or dining style could materially adversely affect our future profitability. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. Our business may also be affected by changes in consumer tastes and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. Adverse changes in these factors could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Our Restaurant Operations are Influenced by Weather Conditions Weather, which is unpredictable, can adversely impact our sales. Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. A heavy snowstorm or hurricane can restrict travel in an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. Our Operations Depend on Governmental Licenses and Complying with Government Regulations Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by alcoholic beverage control, health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state, county and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. We may experience difficulties or failures in obtaining the required licenses or approvals. If we fail to hold all necessary licenses, we may be forced to delay or cancel new restaurant openings and close or reduce operations at existing locations. We also are subject to federal and state environmental regulations and adverse changes in these regulations could have a material negative effect on our operations. For example, more stringent and varied requirements of local and state governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. A material increase in the minimum wage and other statutory benefits could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to reconfigure our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Such modifications could be costly. 13 Table of Contents We May Face Liability Under Dram Shop Statutes Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to “dram shop” statutes in most states. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation” for a discussion of the regulations with which we must comply. We Could Face Potential Labor Shortages and Increases in Labor Costs Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in certain areas, and the inability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence, or health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs and reduce our operating margins. Increased Energy Costs and Power Outages May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results Our success depends in part on our ability to absorb increases in utility costs. Utility costs have been increasing across the country and various regions of the United States in which we operate multiple restaurants, particularly California, have experienced significant and temporary increases in utility prices. We have in the past closed restaurants on a temporary basis due to the inability to receive electrical power. If these increases should recur or continue, it may adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, our contract with our primary food distributor, DMA, allows for some fluctuation in distribution fees based on the price of diesel fuel. A significant increase in the price of diesel fuel may result in increased expenses. We May Suffer from Uninsured Losses that Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business We have comprehensive insurance, including general liability, fire, extended coverage and employee practices liability coverage. However, there are certain types of losses that may be uninsurable or that we believe are not economically insurable, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, and terrorist attacks. In view of the location of many of our existing and planned restaurants in California and Florida and other earthquake and hurricane prone areas of the United States, our operations are susceptible to damage and disruption caused by earthquakes and hurricanes. In the event of an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disaster affecting one or more geographic areas of our operations, we could suffer a loss of the capital invested in, as well as anticipated earnings from, the damaged or destroyed properties. The terrorist attacks on the United States had a significant impact on the portion of our business that is celebratory in nature and adversely affected our restaurant sales and profitability. The threats of additional terrorists’ attacks and continuing uncertainty created by the war on terrorism, could cause a potential downturn in the economy and a decrease in consumer spending. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 