Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause Midas’ actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: We rely on franchising for a substantial portion of our operating revenues. The failure of Midas franchisees to successfully operate stores consistent with our standards would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We rely on franchising for a substantial portion of our operating revenues. Therefore, our business is dependent on the ability of Midas franchisees to deliver high quality services. Midas franchisees are independent contractors and are not Midas employees. We provide training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. We have been modifying our business model, which requires Midas franchisees to perform more technologically complex repairs and maintenance than historically has been the case, and which requires greater investment in personnel and equipment. Consequently, not all Midas franchisees may successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or hire and train qualified managers, technicians and other store personnel. 13 Table of Contents If they do not, our image and reputation may suffer, and system-wide sales and profitability could decline. A reduction in system-wide sales and profitability could negatively impact the collectibility of receivables owed by franchisees to the Company. The failure to comply with applicable franchise laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor—franchisee relationship. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, we may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of shops, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of agreements. There can be no assurance that compliance problems will not be encountered from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, our failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are a leveraged company that utilizes debt to fund its business. We currently have substantial debt on our balance sheet. The financing provided to us is subject to covenants that require us to maintain a certain net worth and maintain compliance with certain leverage ratios. If we do not perform in accordance with these covenants, the financial institutions providing the funds have the option to withdraw their funding support. We cannot assure shareholders that we will remain in compliance with our debt covenants in the future. In addition, our current financing agreement expires on October 27, 2010. We cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to refinance our existing credit facility when it expires in fiscal 2010. Virtually all of our revenues outside of North America are derived from the license fees of one customer. The loss or reduction of these fees would have a material adverse effect on our net income. Virtually all of our revenues outside of North America are derived from our master licensee in Europe and South America (previously Fiat Group S.p.A. and now Norauto Group S.A. of France). As part of our licensing agreement, we receive a fixed, U.S. dollar denominated license fee through 2007, after which our license fee will be variable based upon a percentage of retail sales. We realized $9.7 million in international license fees under this agreement in fiscal 2006, representing approximately 5.5% of our consolidated revenue and 36.2% of our operating income. Under the variable fee arrangement, that amount would have been reduced to approximately $4 million. The loss of these licensing fees due to an adverse change in our relationship with Norauto or in Norauto’s business would have a material adverse effect on our net income. The failure to successfully implement our new business model will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of repositioning the Midas retail system in North America from a business model focused on the servicing and replacement of mufflers, brakes, shock absorbers and struts to a model that encompasses a complete line of services, including climate control, electrical, chassis and maintenance services. While we have made substantial progress in broadening our services, we have not yet been widely successful in developing ongoing relationships with our customers. As a result of the change in business model, our company-operated and franchised shops have had to make, and will have to continue to make, investments in training, new personnel and equipment. As a result of the inability of certain Midas franchisees to adapt to the changing environment and successfully adopt the new business model, we have in some cases reacquired franchises to prevent the closing of these shops. While we believe that the selective acquisition of certain franchises is 14 Table of Contents consistent with the implementation of our business model, our long term success depends upon the ability of our franchisees to profitably implement the new business model. While comparable shop sales have been maintained or improved at shops that have made the transition to the new business model, we cannot assure shareholders that the change in the long run will be successfully marketed, that consumers will accept the new model or that the remaining shops will be willing to or can successfully make the transition to the new format. We operate in a highly competitive market and the failure of Midas franchisees to effectively compete would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The automotive services industry is highly fragmented and highly competitive. There are numerous direct competitors for our retail auto service shops. Midas shops compete with national, regional and local specialty chains, both franchised and company-owned, car dealerships, independent repair shops and service bays of mass merchandisers. We believe the principal competitive factors in the markets served by Midas shops are, in no particular order, customer service and reputation, shop location, name awareness and price. We also compete with businesses of the types noted above and with other parties in the sale of franchises. Competitive factors include startup costs, royalty rates, franchisee support and the financial performance of existing franchises. Many of our competitors are large and have a substantially longer operating history than Midas. Many competitors have greater financial resources than we possess. Our failure to compete effectively or the failure of individual Midas shops to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Advances in automotive technology could adversely affect demand for our maintenance and repair services. The demand for the services offered by Midas shops could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology. Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals. For example, some manufacturers now recommend that consumers change oil at 10,000 mile intervals and replace spark plugs and other engine components at 100,000 miles, a significant increase from the mileage intervals recommended for earlier models and those currently recommended by most manufacturers. In addition, the improvement in original equipment manufacturers’ parts quality has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for the products and services offered by our shops, thereby adversely affecting our Midas system retail revenues. Improvement in the quality of parts manufactured may extend the useful lives and warranties of those parts and may reduce demand for Midas products and services by decreasing the frequency of replacement or refurbishment of those parts. In turn, longer and more comprehensive warranty programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for services offered by Midas shops. We believe that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by their new car dealer during the period the car is under warranty. Finally, advances in automotive technology require that we and our dealers incur additional costs to update our technical training programs and upgrade the diagnostic capabilities of Midas shops. A downturn in the economy may delay or reduce consumer purchases of our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on automotive services, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, gasoline prices, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of regular service interval maintenance generally are reduced during recessionary periods, when gasoline prices are high, or when disposable income is lower. A decline in the usage of automobiles would adversely affect demand for our products and services. While the number of automobiles registered in the U.S. has steadily increased, a sustained reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners would adversely affect the demand for Midas products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases, the number of miles driven by automobile owners typically decreases, which historically has resulted in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs. 15 Table of Contents The failure to comply with consumer protection regulations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. National automotive repair chains have been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states. Negative publicity in connection with such investigations could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our company. In addition, state and local governments have enacted numerous consumer protection laws and the failure to comply with these laws would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to successfully identify acquisition candidates or fail to effectively integrate acquisitions, which may adversely affect our results of operations. One of our strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions of complementary franchising operations. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including: • Failure of the acquired business to achieve the results we expect; • Diversion of our management’s attention from operational matters; • Our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • Risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; • The potential disruption of our existing business; and • Customer dissatisfaction, franchisee dissatisfaction or performance problems in the acquired business If we are unable to integrate or successfully manage any business we acquire in the future, we may not realize anticipated synergies, which may result in reduced profitability or operating losses. In addition, we expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of our acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt financing, possibly necessitating changes to our financing arrangements and resulting in additional leverage. The realization of any or all of these risks described above could affect our reputation and our results of operations. We are subject to seasonality in our results of operations. Our business is seasonal in nature. Historically, we experience lower revenues during the first and fourth quarters. In particular, severe weather in winter months may make it difficult for consumers in affected parts of the country to travel to Midas shops to obtain services. We must commit resources to maintain and develop our brand. The failure to maintain the Midas brand would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to continue maintaining and developing the Midas brand name, future revenues would be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and developing the Midas brand name is critical to its success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as competitors offer products and services similar to our products and services. We incur substantial marketing expenditures to create and maintain brand loyalty as well as increase awareness of our brand. If our brand-building strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, and we may be unable to increase its future revenues or implement its business strategy. Failure to protect our intellectual property would reduce our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright law to protect our intellectual property, including the Midas brand name. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, the laws of some of the foreign countries in which our products and services are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to protect our proprietary information, and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our inability to respond to consumer demands would adversely affect our results of operations. If we were unable to respond to changes in consumer demands in a timely manner, it would adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, if we fail to make continuous and successful new product and service introductions, this could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success in general, and at Midas shops in particular, depends on our ability to identify, originate and define automotive product and service trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our automotive products and services must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing automotive products and services or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If we or our franchisees misjudge the market for automotive products and services, we or our franchisees may be faced with excess inventories and sunk training and equipment costs for certain automotive products and services and missed opportunities for other products and services. The failure to comply with extensive environmental regulation applicable to our business would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Such laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Some of our current and former properties have been used as gas stations and dry cleaners. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce earnings and cash available for our operations. The failure to attract and maintain an adequate supply of skilled labor would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The provision of high quality services by Midas shops requires an adequate supply of skilled labor. In addition, the operating costs and operating revenues of Midas shops may be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled technicians. Trained and experienced automotive technicians are in high demand. In addition, the expansion of our business model from muffler and brake service to more complicated automotive repairs has required many franchised and company-operated shops to hire highly skilled full-service automobile technicians. Accordingly, our ability to increase productivity and revenues could be affected by our inability to attract and maintain the employment of skilled technicians necessary to provide key shop services. If we or our franchisees are unable to attract and maintain the adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate these shops efficiently, or if labor expenses increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled technicians, our financial performance would be adversely affected. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by acts of war or terrorism. War or terrorist activities or the threat of them may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise impact our financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved Staff Comments. 17 Table of Contents 