Item 1A. Risk Factors - ---------------------- We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed to be immaterial by management, also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Business Risks Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the local economies on which we depend that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on business: * A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; * A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale; * An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; or * An increase in the number of our customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. 41 Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market areas could hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in our local market areas of Grays Harbor, Thurston, Pierce, King, Kitsap and Lewis Counties. Our residential loan portfolio, and our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolio and a certain number of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market areas will negatively impact our business. As of September 30, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Washington. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Our loan portfolio includes increased risk due to changes in category composition of the portfolio. The percentage of loans secured by first mortgages on one-to four-family residential properties has decreased as the portfolio has been positioned into higher-yielding loan categories that typically involve a higher degree of risk. From September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2008, our total loans have grown by 54.8%. During this period the percentage of one- to four-family loans in the loan portfolio has decreased to 18.4% from 25.3%. Our commercial real estate loans, construction and land development loans, multi-family loans, land loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans accounted for approximately 81.6% of our total loan portfolio as of September 30, 2008. We consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, and therefore, may cause higher future loan losses. Accordingly, as a result of the inherent risks associated with these types of loans, and the unseasoned nature of a portion of these loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses. An increase in our provision for loan losses would reduce our profits. For further information concerning the risks associated with multi-family, and commercial real estate loans, construction loans, and consumer loans, see "Item 1. Business - Lending Activities." We have increased our construction and land development lending which presents greater risk than one- to four-family and consumer lending. From September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2008, our total construction and land development loans have grown by 35.0%. During this period the percentage of construction and land development loans in the loan portfolio increased to 30.5% from 26.9%. Construction lending is generally considered to involve a higher level of risk as compared to single-family residential or consumer lending, as a result of the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, and the effects of general economic conditions on developers and builders. Moreover, a construction loan can involve additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. The nature of these loans is such that they are generally more difficult to evaluate and monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Construction loans on land under development or held for future construction also poses additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the security. 42 Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently decreased after increasing for several years. The U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.00% to 5.25% during the period from June 30, 2004 to June 29, 2006. The target rate for federal funds remained at 5.25% until September 18, 2007 when the U.S. Federal Reserve began a series of nine rate reductions that lowered the target rate by 425 points to 1.00% on October 29, 2008. A sustained falling interest rate environment would negatively impact margins as the Bank has more interest earning assets that would adjust downward than interest-bearing liabilities that would adjust downward. We manage our assets and liabilities in order to achieve long-term profitability while limiting our exposure to the fluctuation of interest rates. We anticipate periodic imbalances in the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities and the relationship of various interest rates to each other. At any reporting period, we may have earning assets which are more sensitive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. The fluctuation of market interest rates can materially affect our net interest spread, interest margin, loan originations, deposit volumes and overall profitability. In addition, we may have valuation risk in measuring our interest rate risk position. The valuation risk is attributable to calculation methods (modeling risks) and assumptions used in the model, including loan prepayments and forward interest rates. For further information on our interest rate risks, see the discussion included in "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" of this Form 10-K. We are required to maintain a higher capital ratio because of our level of commercial real estate loans. The FDIC, along with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, has issued final guidance for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The guidance provides that a bank has a concentration in commercial real estate lending if (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 300% or more of total capital and its construction loan portfolio has increase 50% or more during the prior 36 months. If a concentration is present, management must employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and increasing capital requirements. Based on the Bank's projected commercial real estate lending levels, it is considered to have a concentration in commercial real estate lending and must implement the practices outlined in the final guidance. Our commercial business lending activities involves greater risk than other types of lending. Our commercial business lending has increased since 2003 and we intend to continue to offer commercial business loans to small and medium sized businesses. Our ability to originate commercial business loans is determined by the demand for these loans and our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial lending personnel. Because payments on commercial business loans generally depend on the successful operation of the business involved, repayment of commercial business loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy than 43 other types of lending. Although commercial business loans often have equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets as collateral, the sale of the collateral in the event the borrower does not repay the loan is often not sufficient to repay the loan because the collateral may be uncollectible and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB of Seattle or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover future loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review several factors including our loan loss and delinquency experience, underwriting practices, and economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in the need for greater additions to our allowance. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.42% of total loans receivable (net) and 67.1% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2008. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our deposit insurance premiums are expected to increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our deposit insurance premiums during fiscal 2008 totaled $296,000. These premiums were, however, offset by $166,000 in credits, leaving the net expense recorded for deposit insurance premiums during the year ended September 30, 2008 at $130,000. These credits were fully depleted during the quarter ended June 30, 2008. Those premiums are expected to increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund due to the cost of large bank failures and increase in the number of troubled banks. The current rates for FDIC assessments have ranged from 5 to 43 basis points, depending on the health of the insured institution. The FDIC has proposed increasing that assessment range to 12 to 50 basis points for the first quarter of 2009. For the remainder of 2009, it has proposed a range of 10 to 45 basis points for institutions that do not trigger risk factors for brokered deposits and unsecured debt and higher rates for those that do trigger those risk factors. The FDIC also proposed that it could increase assessment rates in the future without formal rulemaking. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated competitors to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service 44 providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors sometimes are also able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve the cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of any of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through the Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. For further information, see "Item 1. Business - Regulation of the Company." We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, such failures, interruptions or security breaches may still occur and, if they do occur, they may not be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we may not be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business. 45 We rely on dividends from subsidiaries for most of our revenue. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiary. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiary. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies to help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market may not be successful. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assts that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other "troubled assets." EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: * Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; * Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; * Temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and 46 * Authority to the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In addition, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program, under the TARP pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital. The Company submitted an initial application for the sale of preferred shares equal to 3.0% of its risk-weighted assets. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the currently liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate, including a 50 basis point decrease on October 8, 2008; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an "ownership change" to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they do not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. We did not opt out of the program. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30. 2009, or for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. Many details of the program still remain to be worked out. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the liquidity and credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced is unknown The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The specific impact that such measures may have on us, and whether we will be eligible to obtain capital from the Treasury under the TARP program, is also unknown. 47 Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: * We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. * Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. * The analysis we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. This may impact the reliability of our analysis. * Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms, or at all, could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. * Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. * We may be required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen our ability to access capital may be adversely affected which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ----------------------------------- Not applicable. 48 