Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: Risks Related to the Proposed Merger If a sufficient number of shares are not tendered pursuant to the pending tender offer to allow Purchaser to meet the Short Form Threshold and Purchaser is not able to utilize the Top Up for any reason to reach the Short Form Threshold, the merger may not be completed and our business could be impaired. If Purchaser meets the Short Form Threshold, the proposed merger can be effected without a vote of our stockholders. If Purchaser satisfies the minimum condition for completion of the tender offer but does not acquire enough shares to meet the Short Form Threshold, including through the use of the Top Up and any subsequent offering period, we would be required to obtain the approval of our stockholders to consummate the merger. Although this would not prevent the merger from occurring because Purchaser would control a sufficient number of our shares to approve the merger, it would delay the completion of the merger and could create uncertainty for MDS and our business could be adversely affected. If less than the required minimum number of shares are tendered, then neither the tender offer nor the merger may be completed, which could also cause significant uncertainty for MDS and our business could be severely and adversely affected. Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our stockholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the merger that are different from, or are in addition to, those of MDS stockholders generally. These interests include direct or indirect ownership of MDS common stock, stock options and warrants and the potential receipt of change in control payments by certain MDS executive officers in connection with the proposed merger with TBC. If MDS and TBC are not able to complete the pending tender offer and merger, we will likely need to pursue a different near-term strategic path for enhancing shareholder value. Neither we nor TBC can assure you that we will successfully complete the pending tender offer and close the merger in a timely manner, or at all. The Merger Agreement is subject to customary closing conditions and is contingent upon the tender of a sufficient number of shares held by our current stockholders pursuant to the cash tender offer. If TBC and we do not close the pending tender offer and merger, our board of directors will likely need to pursue an alternative strategic path or transaction. Furthermore, attempting to complete a different strategic transaction could prove to be costly and time-consuming, and we cannot make any assurances that any future strategic transaction will occur on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Failure to complete the pending tender offer and merger could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and operations. The merger with TBC is subject to customary closing conditions and is contingent upon the tender of a sufficient number of shares held by our current stockholders pursuant to the cash tender offer. We cannot assure you that the merger will occur. In the event that the merger is not consummated, we will be subject to significant costs, including legal, accounting and advisory fees related to the merger, which must be paid even if the merger 15 Table of Contents is not completed, and the payment of a $5.59 million or a $6.88 million termination fee under certain circumstances and the payment of up to $1.0 million in expense reimbursement to TBC under certain other circumstances. If the merger is not consummated, the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a positive market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may fail to retain key employees who have sought and obtained different employment in anticipation of the merger being completed. We are involved in litigation relating to the Merger Agreement that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. As described in Part I, Item 3 of this report, “Legal Proceedings”, we and the individual members of our board of directors have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits related to the Merger Agreement and the proposed merger with TBC. These suits generally allege, among other things, that the directors breached their fiduciary duties owed to MDS stockholders by approving the proposed merger for inadequate consideration, entering into the Merger Agreement containing preclusive deal protection devices, and failing to take steps to maximize the value to be paid to MDS stockholders. These suits also allege that MDS, TBC and Purchaser aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of fiduciary duty in connection with MDS’ entry into the Merger Agreement. Although we believe these suits are without merit, the defense of these suits may be expensive and may divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Other Risk Factors We are engaged in litigation that if determined adversely to us could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are currently party to a class action lawsuit brought by Canadian franchisees that seeks approximately $168 million in damages. In addition, MDS received notice on January 3, 2012, that its European licensee, MESA S.p.A. (“MESA”), had filed suit in the Court of Appeal in Milan, Italy, claiming that MDS is in breach of the 1998 License Agreement and the separate Agreement for Strategic Alliance (the “ASA”) under which MESA operates the Midas automotive service business in Europe. MESA seeks damages for the alleged breach of up to €5.8 million, representing a portion of the license fees MESA paid to MDS for the period from June 2009 through October 2011. MESA also seeks a declaratory judgment suspending MESA’s obligation to pay 80% of its future license fee payments owed to MDS under the License Agreement. While we believe that these claims are without merit and have and will continue to vigorously defend against these claims, an adverse determination in any of these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business. For a further description of these lawsuits, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”. Virtually all of our revenues outside of North America are derived from the license fees of one licensee and this licensee has brought legal proceedings seeking to reduce the license fees and has ceased paying 80% of such license fees. The loss or continued reduction of these fees would have a material adverse effect on our net income. Virtually all of our revenues outside of North America are derived from MESA. MDS received notice on January 3, 2012, that MESA had filed suit in the Court of Appeal in Milan, Italy, claiming that MDS is in breach of the License Agreement and the ASA. The complaint alleges that MDS is in breach of these agreements due to, among other things, MDS’ alleged failure to cooperate with MESA to improve the Midas System. MESA seeks damages for the alleged breach of up to €5.8 million, representing a portion of the license fees MESA paid to MDS for the period from June 2009 through October 2011. MESA also seeks a declaratory judgment suspending MESA’s obligation to pay 80% of its future License fee payments owed to MDS under the License Agreement. Following this filing, MESA withheld 80% of its license fees due in January and February 2012. As a result, MDS has filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County (Chicago), Illinois, against MESA, claiming breach of contract and seeking a declaratory judgment requiring MESA to continue to pay the full amount of its license fees to Midas. 16 Table of Contents MESA’s continued failure to pay the license fees owed under the License Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our net income. In fiscal 2011, MDS recorded $4.3 million in international license fee revenue under the License Agreement. This amount represented 2.2% of consolidated revenue and 25.7% of operating income. This license fee is paid in Euros and varies based upon a percentage of retail sales. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of these lawsuits and the previous arbitration. We rely on franchising for a substantial portion of our operating revenues. The failure of our franchisees to successfully operate stores consistent with our standards would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We rely on franchising for a substantial portion of our operating revenues. Therefore, our business is dependent on the ability of our franchisees to deliver high quality services. Our franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. We have been modifying the business models of our franchise systems. These changes generally require franchisees to perform more technologically complex repairs and maintenance services, and require greater investment in personnel and equipment. Consequently, not all franchisees may successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or hire and train qualified managers, technicians and other store personnel. If they do not, our image and reputation may suffer, and system-wide sales and profitability could decline. In addition, a reduction in system-wide sales and profitability could negatively impact the collectibility of receivables owed by franchisees to the Company. The failure to successfully implement our new business models could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of repositioning the Midas retail system in North America from a business model focused on the servicing and replacement of mufflers, brakes, shock absorbers and struts to a model that encompasses a complete line of services. As a result of the change in business model, our Midas company-operated and franchised shops have had to make, and will have to continue to make, investments in training, new personnel and equipment. As a result of the inability of certain Midas franchisees to adapt to the changing environment and successfully adopt the new business model, we have in some cases reacquired franchises to prevent the closing of these shops. While we believe that the selective acquisition of certain franchises is consistent with the implementation of our business model, our long term success depends upon the ability of our franchisees to profitably implement the new business model. While comparable shop sales have been maintained or improved at Midas shops that have made the transition to the new business model, we cannot assure shareholders that the change in the long run will be successfully marketed, that consumers will accept the new model or that the remaining shops will be willing to or can successfully make the transition to the new format. In addition, we are in the process of implementing a new Midas-SpeeDee Co-Brand business model. This program combines the Midas and SpeeDee franchise operations into one location. We believe that this business model could provide us with a platform for growth of sales at existing Midas and SpeeDee locations as well as future unit growth in North America. The sales results at the 75 shops that have Co-Branded so far have been encouraging and the Company is now making this program available to all qualified Midas and SpeeDee locations. However, we cannot assure shareholders that the co-brand business model will succeed at driving sales or profitability for the Company or its franchisees. Furthermore, we cannot assure shareholders that franchisees would be willing or able to make a transition to the new concept on a broad scale. Finally, due to issues related to location overlap, certain SpeeDee and Midas shop locations would not be allowed to make the transition even if the franchisees wanted and were able to do so. 17 Table of Contents A reduction in the availability of consumer credit may reduce consumer purchases of our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues. Credit card purchases account for a significant portion of the revenue of the Midas and SpeeDee systems in North America. A reduction in credit available to customers in general, and Midas credit card holders in particular, would have an adverse impact on MDS revenues. A reduction in the availability of business credit could adversely affect our ability to sell franchises, lower our revenues or lead to slower payment of franchisee obligations due to MDS as franchisor. Most new franchisees finance a significant portion of their shop investment with debt. A further reduction in the availability of business credit may hinder our ability to sell new franchises, as well as the ability of our selling franchisees to find capable buyers. In addition, our franchise systems are comprised of franchisees who are small business operators that rely upon credit to fund their operations. When the availability of credit is reduced, it can harm the ability of our franchisees to fund their operations. As a consequence, franchisees can fail and go out of business or become delinquent in making payments, including payments due to the franchisor. We are a leveraged company that utilizes debt to fund our business. We currently have substantial debt on our balance sheet. The financing provided to us is subject to covenants that require us to maintain a certain net worth and maintain compliance with certain leverage ratios. If we do not perform in accordance with these covenants, the financial institutions providing the funds have the option to withdraw their funding support. The accrual of the $25.5 million European arbitration award in 2010 caused us to be in violation of certain financial covenants as of January 1, 2011. While our lenders have waived this violation and have modified our future covenant requirements, we cannot assure shareholders that we will remain in compliance with our debt covenants in the future. The payment of the arbitration award increased our debt by $22.4 million, thereby causing an increase in interest expense. In addition, our current financing agreement expires on October 27, 2013. While we believe we have excellent relations with our banks, we cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to refinance our existing credit facility upon its expiration in fiscal 2013, nor can we give any assurances to shareholders that the terms of any new financing arrangement will be favorable to the Company. A downturn in the economy may delay or reduce consumer purchases of our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on automotive services, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, gasoline prices, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of regular service interval maintenance generally are reduced during recessionary periods, when gasoline prices are high, or when disposable income is lower. A decline in the usage of automobiles would adversely affect demand for our products and services. While the number of automobiles registered in the U.S. has historically increased over time, a sustained reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners would adversely affect the demand for our products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases or the economy enters a severe recession, the number of miles driven by automobile owners typically decreases, which historically has resulted in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs. In the U.S., in 2008 we experienced the largest one-year drop in miles driven since World War II and we believe that this trend negatively impacted the Company’s overall financial performance in the subsequent three years. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market and the failure of our franchisees to effectively compete would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The automotive services industry is highly fragmented and highly competitive. There are numerous direct competitors for our retail auto service shops. Our shops compete with national, regional and local specialty chains, both franchised and company-owned, car dealerships, independent repair shops and service bays of mass merchandisers. We believe the principal competitive factors in the markets served by our shops are, in no particular order, customer service and reputation, shop location, name awareness and price. We also compete with businesses of the types noted above and with other parties in the sale of franchises. Competitive factors include startup costs, royalty rates, franchisee support and the financial performance of existing franchises. Many of our competitors are large and have a substantially longer operating history. Many competitors have greater financial resources than we possess. Our failure to compete effectively or the failure of individual shops to compete effectively would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to respond to consumer demands would adversely affect our results of operations. If we were unable to respond to changes in consumer demands in a timely manner, it would adversely affect our revenues. Furthermore, if we fail to make continuous and successful new product and service introductions, this could adversely affect our financial performance. Our success in general, and at franchised system shops in particular, depends on our ability to identify, originate and define automotive product and service trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our automotive products and services must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. We may not be able to continue to develop appealing automotive products and services or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If we or our franchisees misjudge the market for automotive products and services, we or our franchisees may be faced with excess inventories and sunk training and equipment costs for certain automotive products and services and missed opportunities for other products and services. Advances in automotive technology could adversely affect demand for our maintenance and repair services. The demand for the services offered by our shops could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology. Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals. For example, some manufacturers now recommend that consumers change oil at 10,000 mile intervals and replace spark plugs and other engine components at 100,000 miles, a significant increase from the mileage intervals recommended for earlier models and those currently recommended by most manufacturers. In addition, the improvement in original equipment manufacturers’ parts quality has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for the products and services offered by our shops, thereby adversely affecting our franchise system revenues. Improvement in the quality of parts manufactured may extend the useful lives and warranties of those parts and may reduce demand for our products and services by decreasing the frequency of replacement or refurbishment of those parts. In turn, longer and more comprehensive warranty programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for services offered by our shops. We believe that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by their new car dealer during the period the car is under warranty. Major automobile manufacturers are experimenting with various advanced engine technologies, some of which could negatively impact demand for services currently performed within our franchise systems. Finally, advances in automotive technology could require that we and our franchisees incur additional costs to update our technical training programs and upgrade the diagnostic capabilities of Midas and SpeeDee shops. 19 Table of Contents The failure to attract and maintain an adequate supply of skilled labor could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The provision of high quality services by our shops requires an adequate supply of skilled labor. In addition, the operating costs and operating revenues of auto service shops may be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled technicians. Trained and experienced automotive technicians are in high demand. The expansion of our business model from muffler and brake service to more complicated automotive repairs has required many franchised and company-operated shops to hire highly skilled full-service automobile technicians. Accordingly, our ability to increase productivity and revenues could be affected by our inability to attract and maintain the employment of skilled technicians necessary to provide key shop services. If we or our franchisees are unable to attract and maintain the adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate these shops efficiently, or if labor expenses increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled technicians, our financial performance would be adversely affected. The failure to comply with applicable franchise laws could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor—franchisee relationship. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, we may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of shops, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of agreements. There can be no assurance that compliance problems will not be encountered from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, our failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We must commit resources to maintain and develop our key brands. The failure to maintain the Midas and SpeeDee brands would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to continue maintaining and developing the Midas and SpeeDee brand names, future revenues would be adversely affected. We believe that maintaining and developing our brand names is critical to our success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as competitors offer products and services similar to our products and services. We incur substantial marketing expenditures to create and maintain brand loyalty as well as increase awareness of our brands. If our brand-building strategies are unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, as we may be unable to increase future revenues or successfully implement certain business strategies. Failure to protect our intellectual property would reduce our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright law to protect our intellectual property, including the Midas and SpeeDee brand names. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, the laws of some of the foreign countries in which our products and services are or may be sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to protect our proprietary information, and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us, could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents The failure to comply with consumer protection regulations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. National automotive repair chains, including Midas, have been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states. Negative publicity in connection with such investigations could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our company. In addition, state and local governments have enacted numerous consumer protection laws and the failure to comply with these laws would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure to comply with extensive environmental regulation applicable to our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Such laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Some of our current and former properties have been used as gas stations and dry cleaners. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce earnings and cash available for our operations. Significant changes in the market value of our defined benefit plan assets or interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a defined benefit plan that we offer to individuals employed by MDS. The assets in the plan are invested in a combination of equities, bonds and cash in order to fund ongoing plan obligations and ensure the future funded status of the plan. Historically, our defined benefit plan had been well-funded and we did not have to make any material contributions to fund the plan. As a result of the significant downturn in the U.S. stock market in 2008, and despite the recovery in the U.S. Stock market in the past three years, the plan is currently underfunded. The continuing low interest rate environment is also contributing to plan underfunding as the discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation has declined from 6.25% at the end of 2007 to 4.625% at the end of 2011. Consequently, our pension expense has substantially increased in the past three years and it is projected to remain elevated for the next several years. We are obligated to make substantial cash contributions to fund the plan in order to remain in compliance with certain U.S. Government rules and guidelines. Cash contributions of $3.1 million and $1.4 million were made to the plan in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and the Company expects to make additional cash contributions of $4.7 million in fiscal 2012. Further significant changes in the value of plan assets or a further reduction in discount rates could affect the amount and timing of incremental income statement expense for the Company and could result in changes to our projected incremental cash contributions to the plan in current and future years. The U.S. Government establishes rules that govern the funding requirements of such plans and we comply with these rules. We cannot project the future funded status of our plan nor can we project the future funding requirements of the plan that would result from changes in the funded status or changes in government rules regarding required funding. 21 Table of Contents The failure to maintain adequate levels of taxable income within our U.S. and Canadian subsidiaries would have a material adverse effect on our corporate income tax expense and the valuation of our net deferred tax assets. Our balance sheet contains significant deferred tax assets for net operating loss carry forwards and other reserves and liabilities that are deductible for tax purposes in future years. We must maintain adequate levels of taxable income in key subsidiaries in all future years to preserve the utilization of these deferred tax assets prior to their expiration. If we determine that it is more likely than not that these assets will not be fully utilized in future years, we will have to record an incremental charge to income tax expense and record an incremental valuation allowance against the corresponding deferred tax assets. If our stock price remains at its current level, it will have a material adverse effect on our future corporate income tax expense. As prior MDS stock awards vest, the estimated fair value of the award is amortized as an expense charged to our book income statement. For tax purposes, stock awards are not deductible until they vest (for restricted stock) or until they are exercised (for options). As the expense is amortized on our book income statement, we recognize a deferred tax asset on our balance sheet. The deferred tax asset is then reversed when the corresponding restricted stock vests or when the corresponding options are exercised. If our tax deduction is less than our book income statement deduction, the full deferred tax asset will not be realized. The tax effected difference between our book deduction and our tax deduction is charged to income tax expense. This happens if and when restricted stock vests at a stock price below its grant price, or if stock options are exercised at a stock price which results in a tax deduction that is less than the Black-Scholes valuation of the option at grant date. The lowering of U.S. corporate income tax rates would have a material adverse effect on our corporate income tax expense. Our balance sheet contains a significant U.S. deferred tax asset, which is valued at a combined (federal plus state) income tax rate of 39.2%. If the U.S. corporate income tax rates were reduced in the next several years, the deferred tax assets would have to be written-down to their net realizable value. This would result in incremental U.S. income tax expense for the Company. We rely heavily on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business. Our information systems are fully integrated into our operations, including: electronic communications and data transfer protocols with franchised and company-owned shops, vendors, data storage and financial and operational reporting. To the extent our systems are subject to intentional attacks or unintentional events that allow unauthorized access that disrupts our systems, our business could be significantly disrupted and could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by acts of war or terrorism War or terrorist activities or the threat of them may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise impact our financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved Staff Comments. 22 Table of Contents 