Risk Factors.” Historically, we met our debt service and other cash requirements with cash flows from operations and our existing revolving credit facilities. As a result of certain acquisitions and related financing transactions, however, our debt service requirements have increased significantly. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities, or that future debt and equity financing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when due, including our Senior Secured Notes, or to fund our other financing needs. Our indebtedness under the Senior Secured Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and other credit facilities as of December 31, 2008 amounted to $930.3 million, and additionally $14.7 million of accrued interest. In addition, Russian Alcohol Group currently has approximately $286 million in outstanding indebtedness, which under the terms of our current indebtedness would have to be refinanced in the event we acquire control of Russian Alcohol Group. 21 Table of Contents If our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay our obligations as they mature or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to: • reduce or delay our business activities and capital expenditures; • sell assets; • obtain additional debt or equity capital; or • restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, including our Senior Secured Notes, on or before maturity. The above factors all contain an inherent risk regarding our ability to execute them. Additionally, our Senior Secured Notes and covenants made in connection therewith may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of any such borrowing. Furthermore, recent significant changes in market liquidity conditions resulting in a tightening in the credit markets and a reduction in the availability of debt and equity capital could impact our access to funding and our related funding costs, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain and manage liquidity, to obtain additional capital and to restructure or refinance any of our existing debt. We are subject to restrictive debt covenants. The indenture governing our Senior Secured Notes, and our other senior credit facilities, contain, and other financing arrangements we enter into in the future may contain, provisions which limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to enter into certain transactions, including the ability to make certain payments, including dividends or other cash distributions; incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; make certain investments; prepay or redeem subordinated debt or equity; create certain liens or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; sell assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; issue or sell share capital of certain subsidiaries; and enter into other lines of business. Risks related to our common stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The sale price for our common stock has varied between a high of $77.48 and a low of $17.16 in the twelve month period ended December 31, 2008. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell the common stock and the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in “Risks related to our business” and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus supplement; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. In addition, the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely impact its price. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 47,098,837 shares of our common stock and options to purchase approximately 1,342,700 shares of our common stock (of which approximately 1,038,175 were exercisable as of that date). We also had outstanding approximately 68,568 restricted stock units as of December 31, 2008, 400 of which were exercisable. As a result of our acquisition of Botapol Holding B.V., which we completed on August 17, 2005, Takirra Investment Corporation N.V. as of December 31, 2008 owned a total of 2,537,128 shares of our common stock. Takirra Investment Corporation N.V. has the right to cause us to register resale of the shares of our common stock that it owns or to include its shares in future registration statements filed by us with the SEC. We have filed a registration statement relating 22 Table of Contents to the shares with the SEC. Pursuant to that registration statement, Takirra Investment Corporation N.V. will be able to sell its shares to the public in the United States. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of 85% of the share capital of Copecresto Enterprises Limited, which we completed on March 13, 2008, White Horse Intervest Limited as of December 31, 2008 owned a total of 2,238,806 shares of our common stock. White Horse Intervest Limited has the right to cause us to register resale of the shares of our common stock that it owns or to include its shares in future registration statements filed by us with the SEC. Finally, as a result of our acquisition of 50% minus one vote of the voting power, and 75% of the economic interests, in the Whitehall Group, which we completed on May 23, 2008, Barclays Wealth Trustees (Jersey) Limited, in its capacity as trustee of the First National Trust owns a total of 843,524 shares of our common stock and Mark Kaoufman owns a total of 2,100,000 shares of our common stock which we have agreed to register for resale. If any of the foregoing were to sell a large number of their shares in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Delaware law and provisions in our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. The ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock, our stockholders rights plan and certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock. See “Description of capital stock.” We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Enforcing legal liability against us and our directors and officers might be difficult. We are organized under the laws of the State of Delaware of the United States. Therefore, investors are able to effect service of process in the United States upon us and may be able to effect service of process upon our directors and executive officers. We are a holding company, however, and substantially all of our operating assets are located in Poland, Hungary and, in connection with our recently completed acquisitions, Russia. Further, most of our directors and executive officers, and those of most of our subsidiaries, are non-residents of the United States, and our assets and the assets of our directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, you may not be able to enforce against our assets (or those of certain of our directors or executive officers) judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States laws, including federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may not be enforceable in Poland or Russia. 