ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. The following provides a discussion of certain risks that management believes are specific to our business. This discussion should not be viewed as an all inclusive list or in any particular order.Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us.We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions or their businesses that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following:•we may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;•prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we may continue to experience this condition in the future;•the acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of an acquisition within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. These risks are present in our completed FDIC-assisted transactions involving our assumption of deposits and the acquisition of assets of Cowlitz Bank (the "Cowlitz Acquisition") and Pierce Commercial Bank (the "Pierce Commercial Acquisition"), and together with the Cowlitz Acquisition, the "Cowlitz and Pierce Commercial Acquisitions" in 2010 and in the recently completed open-bank acquisitions of Northwest Commercial Bank and Valley Community Bancshares on January 9, 2013 and July 15, 2013, respectively. This risk is also present in the pending merger with Washington Banking Company;•to finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders.•we completed two acquisitions during 2010 and two acquisitions during 2013 that enhanced our rate of growth. We also announced the merger of Washington Banking Company and its subsidiary, Whidbey Island Bank, in October 2013, which is currently expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future;•we expect our net income will increase following our acquisitions, however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses and consequently our efficiency ratios will also increase. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; however, if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, and our acquisitions or branching activities may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term; and•the purchase and assumption agreement and the shared-loss agreements we entered into with the FDIC in connection with the Cowlitz and Pierce Commercial Acquisitions, have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and real estate owned under the 27Table of Contentsrequirements of the shared-loss agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated.Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.We intend to pursue a significant growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful.Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives, which will increase our compensation costs. In addition, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. To the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we also could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets.If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that suitable growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. See “-If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced” and “-Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions and de novo branching exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us” for additional risks related to our acquisition strategy.Failure to comply with the terms of the shared-loss agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses.In connection with the Cowlitz Bank Acquisition, Heritage Bank entered into shared-loss agreements with the FDIC that significantly reduce the Bank’s credit loss exposure. The purchase and assumption agreement and the shared-loss agreements for the Cowlitz Bank Acquisition have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and other real estate owned under the requirements of the shared-loss agreement may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated.We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business.We may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would experience in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional pressure on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the resulting impact to our capital resources that may require us to raise additional capital. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.28Table of ContentsWe operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations.We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the Federal Reserve and Heritage Bank is subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the FDIC and the Division. The Federal Reserve, FDIC and Division govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the requirement for additional capital, the imposition of restrictions on an institution’s operations, the reclassification of assets and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses, the determination of the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed and the approval of merger transactions.The potential exists for additional Federal or state laws and regulations regarding capital requirements, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to remain active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the potential issuance of formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our on-going operations, costs and profitability.The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, created a new CFPB, tightened capital standards and will continue to result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations may materially increase our operating and compliance costs.The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as Heritage Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators.Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts, which could result in an increase in our interest expense.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidate using a company’s proxy materials. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded.Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 29Table of Contents100% loans that are not registered with the SEC and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities, including the Company, unless an exception applies. We are analyzing the impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment portfolio and we anticipate changes to our investment strategies, which could negatively affect our earnings.The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations may not be known for years until final regulations implementing the statute are adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or the value of collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could also require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.In July 2013, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.The final rule includes new capital requirements under regulations adopted by the federal banking regulators to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reform and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These new requirements are effective for the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015 and establish the following minimum capital ratios: (1) a common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, there is a new requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, in an amount greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets over the minimum capital required by each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on the organization’s ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in, beginning January 1, 2016, requiring during 2016 a buffer amount greater than 0.625% in order to avoid these limitations, and increasing the amount each year until beginning January 1, 2019, the buffer amount must be greater than 2.5% in order to avoid the limitation.The new regulations also change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting these various capital requirements, as well as the risk-weights of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios. Under the new regulations, in order to be considered well-capitalized for prompt corrective action purposes, Heritage Bank will be required to maintain the following ratios: (1) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of at least 10.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%.The application of more stringent capital requirements for us and Heritage Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.New regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans.The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including:•excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans);•interest-only payments;•Negative-amortization; and•terms longer than 30 years.Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, 30Table of Contentstaking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with a higher risk of loss.Repayment of our commercial business loans, consisting of commercial and industrial loans as well as owner-occupied and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We offer different types of commercial loans to a variety of businesses with a focus on real estate related industries and businesses in agricultural, healthcare, legal, and other professions. The types of commercial loans offered are business lines of credit, term equipment financing and term real estate loans. We also originate loans that are guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, or SBA, and are a “preferred lender” of the SBA. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts established on predetermined loan to collateral values and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on our assessment of the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and creditworthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. In addition, as part of our commercial business lending activities, we originate agricultural loans. Payments on agricultural loans are typically dependent on the profitable operation or management of the related farm property. The success of the farm may be affected by many factors outside the control of the borrower, including adverse weather conditions that prevent the planting of a crop or limit crop yields, declines in market prices for agricultural products and the impact of government regulations. In addition, many farms are dependent on a limited number of key individuals whose injury or death may significantly affect the successful operation of the farm. If the cash flow from a farming operation is diminished, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired.At December 31, 2013, our originated commercial business loans (consisting of commercial and industrial loans, owner-occupied commercial real estate loans and non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans) totaled $848.8 million, or approximately 86.9% of our total originated loan portfolio. Approximately $5.5 million, or 0.7%, of our total originated commercial business loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2013. The majority of the nonperforming commercial business loans were commercial and industrial loans.Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, which includes five or more family residential real estate loans, involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. We originate commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired.Commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans also expose us to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. If we foreclose on a commercial and five or more family residential real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and five or more family residential real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.As of December 31, 2013, our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $354.5 million, or 36.3% of our total originated loan portfolio.31Table of ContentsOur real estate construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regards to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, it may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and may incur a loss.As of December 31, 2013, our originated real estate construction and land development loans totaled $63.8 million, or 6.5% of our total originated loan portfolio. Of these loans, $18.6 million, or 1.9% of our total originated loan portfolio, were one-to-four family residential construction related and $45.2 million, or 4.6% of our total originated loan portfolio, were five-or-more family residential and commercial construction related. Approximately $1.0 million, or 1.6%, of our total originated construction loans were nonperforming at December 31, 2013.Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending money is a substantial part of our business. Every loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower;•changes in economic and industry conditions; and•the duration of the loan.We maintain an allowance for loan losses on our loans, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged against income, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience;•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral or discounted cash flows; and•current macroeconomic factors and management’s expectation of future events.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our capital.For the year ended December 31, 2013 we recorded a total provision for loan losses of $3.7 million compared to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The provision related to the originated portfolio was $890,000 and $695,000 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our provision for loan losses on purchased loans was $2.8 million and $1.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We recorded net loan charge-offs of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The net charge-offs related to the originated portfolio was $2.9 million and $3.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Recently, we have been experiencing decreasing loan delinquencies and decreasing loan charge-offs. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating 32Table of Contentsdifficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy. The deterioration in the general economy has been a significant contributing factor to our current level of delinquencies and nonperforming loans. The economy has significantly impacted our commercial and industrial loan portfolio, which represented 64.7% of our nonaccrual originated loans at December 31, 2013. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in foreclosures for one-to-four family residential construction loans, which represented 15.0% of our nonperforming originated loans at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2013 our total nonperforming originated loans were $6.9 million, or 0.53% of total originated loans, compared to $12.5 million or 1.28% of total originated loans at December 31, 2012. If economic conditions deteriorate, we expect that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and loan charge-offs. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.The current economic condition in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Washington and Oregon, and a continuing decline in the economies of our primary market areas of the Pacific Northwest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, in the current downturn, the Puget Sound and Portland, Oregon areas have experienced substantial home price declines, increased foreclosures and above-average unemployment rates. Many large Pacific Northwest businesses have implemented substantial employee layoffs and scaled back plans for future growth. The Yakima Valley also has similarly experienced an increased unemployment rate and a continued decline in housing prices.Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•we may increase our provision for loan losses;•demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans;•collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans;•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, our earnings and capital could be reduced.Accounting standards require that we account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. At December 31, 2013, we had goodwill with a carrying amount of $29.4 million.Declines in our stock price or a prolonged weakness in the operating environment of the financial services industry may result in a future impairment charge. Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse affect on our operating results and capital.Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability.Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results 33Table of Contentsof operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the past four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense will be limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has recently indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates through at least late 2014. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability.The tightening of available liquidity could limit our ability to replace deposits and fund loan demand, which could adversely affect our earnings and capital levels.A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain adequate funding to replace deposits and fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, we rely from time to time on advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, or FHLB, and certain other wholesale funding sources to fund loans and replace deposits. In the event of a further downturn in the economy, these additional funding sources could be negatively affected which could limit the funds available to us. Our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we were unable to access funds from the FHLB or other wholesale funding sources.Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high; further, the resulting dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point we may need to raise additional capital to support continued internal growth and growth through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, however, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed.We are not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur.Our board of directors is authorized generally to cause us to issue additional common stock, as well as series of preferred stock, without any action on the part of our shareholders except as may be required under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, the board has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any such series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights and preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends or upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of our business and other terms.In addition, if we issue preferred stock in the future that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of the common stock could be adversely affected.Deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses of our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock.At December 31, 2013, we owned $5.7 million of stock of the FHLB of Seattle. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to impairment testing pursuant to applicable accounting standards. In December 2008, the FHLB announced that it had 34Table of Contentsa risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or the FHFA, its primary regulator, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, on October 25, 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA, which it has been operating under since that time. In September 2012, the FHLB of Seattle announced that its financial condition had improved and that the FHFA had authorized the FHLB Seattle to repurchase up to $25 million of excess capital stock per quarter at par ($100 per share) as long as its financial condition does not deteriorate. After receiving FHFA approval, the FHLB of Seattle repurchased $24.1 million in excess capital stock in late September 2012. In July 2013 the FHLB announced that, based on its second quarter 2013 financial results, their Board of Directors had declared a $0.025 per share cash dividend. This represented the first dividend in a number of years and represents a significant milestone in FHLB's return to normal operations. Subsequently, the FHLB declared an additional dividend of $0.025 per share based on its third quarter 2013 financial results. In addition, the FHLB of Seattle repurchased $74.0 million in excess capital stock from January 1, 2013 to September 30, 2013. As a result of the FHLB of Seattle's improved financial condition, we have not recorded an impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. Further deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment.New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company’s stockholders. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. For information regarding the significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us, see “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.”We rely heavily on the proper functioning of our technology.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We rely on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business.Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our performance.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements.We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where we conduct 35Table of Contentsour business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Brian L. Vance, and certain other employees. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved staff comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") as it relates to the Company's financial information as reported on Form 10-K. 