Item 1A. Risk Factors We regularly identify, monitor and assess our exposure to risk and seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our energy services and delivery businesses. However, there are risks that are beyond our control or that cannot be limited cost-effectively or that may occur despite our risk mitigation efforts. The risk factors discussed below could have a material effect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. NYSEG's Electric Rate Order issued by the NYPSC that went into effect on January 1, 2007, will significantly impact NYSEG's earnings potential. The reduction in rates and changes in NYSEG's commodity supply program reduces NYSEG's earnings potential by $35 million to $45 million, which will have an adverse effect on NYSEG's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of the Electric Rate Order on our credit ratings. The NYPSC has experimented with programs that require utilities to actively encourage their customers to migrate to ESCO suppliers. The NYPSC has experimented with programs to require utilities to actively encourage customers to switch to ESCOs for the purchase of electricity or natural gas. NYSEG and RG&E have developed such "ESCO Referral" programs, and they have been submitted to the NYPSC for review and approval. However, to date, the NYPSC has not acted to implement these programs at RG&E or NYSEG. The NYPSC has also dismantled the Office of Retail Market Development, upon the resignation of its director, and has re-assigned staff to other offices of the NYPSC. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. Our regulated utilities are subject to substantial governmental regulation on the federal, state and local levels. On the federal level, the FERC regulates our utilities' transmission rates, affiliate transactions, the issuance of certain short-term debt securities by our electric utilities and certain other aspects of our utilities' businesses. State commissions regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service, various business practices and transactions, financings, and transactions between the utilities and affiliates. Local regulation affects the siting of our transmission and distribution facilities and our ability to make repairs to such facilities. Our allowed rates of return, rate structures, operation and construction of facilities, rates of depreciation and amortization, recovery of costs (including exogenous costs such as storm-related expenses), are all determined by the regulatory process. The timing and adequacy of regulatory relief directly affect our results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, compliance with regulatory requirements may result in substantial costs in our operations that may n ot be recovered. We cannot predict the effect that any future changes or revisions to laws and regulations affecting the utility industry may have on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are a holding company whose material assets are the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we conduct all of our operations through those subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and to pay principal and accrued interest on our debt depends upon our receipt of dividends from our principal subsidiaries. Payments to us by those subsidiaries depend, in turn, upon their results of operations and cash flows, which are subject to the risk factors discussed in this section. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us is also affected by the level of their indebtedness, and the restrictions on payments to us imposed under the terms of such indebtedness and restrictions imposed by the Federal Power Act. Our natural gas companies may be affected by various factors that could limit their ability to obtain natural gas supplies. Supply and demand factors including hurricanes or other natural disasters could affect our future ability to obtain natural gas supplies. Increases in demand and lower supplies can result in higher natural gas prices. While higher costs are generally passed on to customers pursuant to natural gas adjustment clauses, and therefore do not pose a direct risk to our earnings, we are unable to predict what effect increases in natural gas prices may have on our customers' energy consumption or ability to pay. Transmission projects are subject to regulations and other factors beyond our control. Our electric utility companies have substantial transmission capital investment programs including an RG&E transmission project of approximately $119 million that has received the required regulatory approvals and proposed transmission projects in Maine that could require significant investment. These transmission projects are expected to increase reliability, meet new load growth requirements and interconnect with new generation, including renewable generation. The regulatory approval process for transmission projects is extensive and we may not be able to obtain the approvals required for our proposed transmission projects. Various factors beyond our control, including an increase in the cost of materials or labor, may increase the cost of completing construction projects and may delay construction. Our new transmission projects are subject to the effects of new legislation, regulation and regional interpretations of applicable laws and regulations. Any changes to these laws and regulations may increase the costs or timing of our transmission projects. The FERC has jurisdiction over transmission expansion and generation interconnection. The FERC has issued several orders regarding transmission expansion and generation interconnection cost allocation. Changes to the rules and regulations concerning transmission expansion and generation cost allocations may affect future transmission rates. RTOs and independent system operators now oversee wholesale transmission services in NYSEG's, RG&E's, and CMP's service territories and between regions. Our transmission facilities are operated by and subject to the rules and regulations of the NYISO and ISO-NE. Changes to those rules and regulations could cause us to incur additional expenses to maintain our facilities. Our ability to provide energy delivery and commodity services depends on the operations and facilities of third parties. These third party facilities include independent system operators, electric generators from whom we purchase electricity and natural gas pipeline operators from whom we receive shipments of natural gas. The loss of use or destruction of our facilities or the facilities of third parties that are used in providing our services, or with which our electric or natural gas facilities are interconnected, due to extreme weather conditions, breakdowns, war, acts of terrorism or other occurrences could greatly reduce potential earnings and cash flows and increase our costs of repairs and/or replacement of assets. While we carry property insurance to protect certain assets and have regulatory agreements that provide for the recovery of losses for such incidents, our losses may not be fully recoverable through insurance or customer rates. The demand for our services is directly affected by weather conditions. The demand for our services, especially our natural gas delivery service, is directly affected by weather conditions. Milder winter months or cooler summer months could greatly reduce our earnings and cash flows. Loss of revenue due to power outages in severe weather could also reduce our earnings or require us to defer some costs for future recovery, thus reducing our cash flow. While our natural gas distribution companies mitigate the risk of warmer winter weather through weather normalization clauses or weather insurance, and we have historically been able to defer major storm costs for future recovery, we may not always be able to fully recover all lost revenues or increased expenses. We use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts. We also bear the risk of a counterparty failing to perform. While we employ prudent credit policies and obtain collateral where appropriate, counterparty credit exposure cannot be eliminated, particularly in volatile energy markets. Our ability to hedge our commodity market risk depends on our ability to accurately forecast demand in future periods. Because of changes in weather and customer demand from period to period, we may hedge amounts that are greater or less than our actual commodity deliveries. Such differences may lead to financial losses and, if the differences exceed certain levels, could result in our hedges becoming ineffective under accounting guidance. Gains or losses on ineffective hedges are marked-to-market on our income statement without reference to our underlying sale of the commodity. Prices for electricity and natural gas are subject to volatility in response to changes in supply and other market conditions. We pass commodity price increases on to electric customers who choose a variable price option and to all natural gas customers. We have a comprehensive hedging program in place to mitigate the price risk for the load required for electric customers who choose a fixed price option under NYSEG's and RG&E's current commodity option programs. Higher prices passed on to customers can lead to higher bad debt expense and customer conservation resulting in reduced demand for our energy services. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of equity and fixed income investments. Any fluctuations in the performance of those markets, as well as changes in interest rates, could increase our funding requirements for pension and postretirement benefit obligations and cause us to recognize increased expense. In addition, the cost to implement regulatory requirements and potential revisions to accounting standards could affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Our business follows the economic cycle of the customers in the regions that we serve. A falling, slow or sluggish economy as found in our upstate New York service territories and reduced demand for electricity and/or natural gas in the areas in which we do business - through forced temporary plant shutdowns, closing operations or slow economic growth - would reduce our earnings potential in the affected region. We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation. Our subsidiaries' operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations that monitor, among other things, emission allowances, pollution controls, maintenance, site remediation, upgrading equipment and management of hazardous waste. Various governmental agencies require us to obtain environmental licenses, permits, inspections and approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and requirements can impose significant costs, reduce cash flows and result in plant shutdowns. Our ability and/or cost to access capital could be negatively affected by changes in our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If any of our utility subsidiaries' credit ratings were to be downgraded, our ability to access the capital markets, including the commercial paper markets, could be adversely affected and our borrowing costs would increase. Some of the factors that affect credit ratings are cash flows, liquidity and the amount of debt as a component of total capitalization. An example of a factor that could cause our subsidiaries' debt as a component of total capitalization to increase is the need to borrow money to pay for unexpected repairs to their transmission and distribution systems caused by a catastrophic event. The application of our critical accounting policies reflects complex judgments and estimates. Those policies include industry-specific accounting standards applicable to our rate-regulated utilities, accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets, pension and other postretirement benefit plans, unbilled revenue and allowance for doubtful accounts. The adoption of new accounting standards, changes to current accounting standards or interpretations of such standards may materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The NYPSC proceeding regarding NYSEG's OPEB reserve could have a significant one-time impact on earnings. On August 23, 2006, the NYPSC issued its decision in the NYSEG rate case. Among other things, the NYPSC instructed the ALJ to open a separate proceeding regarding the NYPSC staff's position that NYSEG should have retained $57 million of interest in its OPEB reserve and used it to reduce rate base. A proceeding has been opened and hearings on the issues raised by the NYPSC staff are currently scheduled for July 2007. NYPSC acceptance of its staff's position would result in NYSEG treating all or a portion of the $57 million as an addition to its internal OPEB reserve, with a corresponding charge to income. While we are vigorously opposing staff on these issues, contending that the NYPSC staff is engaged in retroactive ratemaking, we cannot predict how this matter will be resolved. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None for Energy East or RG&E. 