Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business strategy. In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed to be immaterial by management, also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio.Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the state of Washington. A decline in the economies of our local market areas of Grays Harbor, Pierce, Thurston, King, Kitsap and Lewis counties in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In the recent economic downturn our market areas, as well as much of the rest of the state of Washington, experienced strains in the financial and housing markets, resulting in higher levels of loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and a decline in the values of the collateral securing our loans. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, a prolonged slow recovery or a deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: •loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•the sale of foreclosed assets may slow;•demand for our products and services may decline possibly resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets;•collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected.Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth.Although we consider ourselves competitive in our market areas, we face intense competition in both making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability will depend upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas.Our real estate construction loans expose us to significant risks.We make real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties. We originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. At September 30, 2014, construction and land development loans totaled $68.5 million, or 11.3% of our total loan portfolio, of which $65.2 million were for residential real estate projects. Approximately $59.8 million of our residential construction loans were made to finance the construction of owner-occupied homes and are structured to be converted to permanent loans at the end of the construction phase. In general, construction lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property's value both before and at completion of the project as well as the estimated cost of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential real estate market, property values have become more difficult to determine. Construction loans often involve the disbursement of funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. These loans are also generally more difficult to monitor. In addition, speculative construction loans to builders are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. At September 30, 2014, $2.6 million of our construction portfolio was comprised of speculative one- to four-family construction 35loans. No real estate construction loans were non-performing at September 30, 2014. A material increase in our non-performing construction loans could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.Our emphasis on commercial real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks.Our current business strategy includes an emphasis on commercial real estate lending. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. In our primary market of western Washington, a further downturn in the real estate market, could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures, and significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss.At September 30, 2014, we had $294.4 million of commercial real estate mortgage loans, representing 48.5% of our total loan portfolio. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on commercial real estate loans may be larger as a percentage of the total principal outstanding than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios.The level of our commercial real estate loan portfolio may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.The FDIC, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under this guidance, a financial institution that, like us, is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital, or (ii) total reported loans secured by multi-family and non-farm residential properties, loans for construction, land development and other land, and loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital. The particular focus of the guidance is on exposure to commercial real estate loans that are dependent on the cash flow from the real estate held as collateral and that are likely to be at greater risk to conditions in the commercial real estate market (as opposed to real estate collateral held as a secondary source of repayment or as an abundance of caution). The purpose of the guidance is to guide banks in developing risk management practices and capital levels commensurate with the level and nature of real estate concentrations. The guidance states that management should employ heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. We have concluded that we have a concentration in commercial real estate lending under the foregoing standards because our balance in commercial real estate loans at September 30, 2014 represents more than 300% of total capital. While we believe we have implemented policies and procedures with respect to our commercial real estate loan portfolio consistent with this guidance, bank regulators could require us to implement additional policies and procedures consistent with their interpretation of the guidance that may result in additional costs to us.Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value.At September 30, 2014, we had $30.6 million or 5.0% of total loans in commercial business loans. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Real estate lending is generally considered to be collateral based lending with loan amounts based on predetermined loan to collateral values 36and liquidation of the underlying real estate collateral being viewed as the primary source of repayment in the event of borrower default. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The borrowers' cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, or other business assets, the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. Accordingly, the repayment of commercial business loans depends primarily on the cash flow and credit worthiness of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower.Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.At September 30, 2014, $133.4 million, or 22.0% of our total loan portfolio, was secured by one- to four-family mortgage loans and home equity loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values as a result of the downturn in the Washington housing market has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans and increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas subsequent to when the loans were originated. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. Further, a significant amount of our home equity lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity lines secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our residential loans.Our provision for loan losses and net charge-offs have fluctuated significantly during recent years compared to historical averages and we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations.For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, we recorded no provision for loan losses compared to $2.9 million for the prior fiscal year. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $709,000 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014 as compared to $3.6 million for the prior fiscal year. We are still experiencing, however, elevated levels of loan delinquencies and credit losses as compared to historical standards. Although the housing and real estate markets have recently modestly improved in several of our market areas, until general economic conditions improve further, we expect that we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, our portfolio is concentrated in construction loans, land loans, and commercial real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. As a result, we could be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses to increase our allowance for loan losses. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.81% of total loans held for investment and 89% of non-performing loans at September 30, 2014. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our capital.Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•the cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•the duration of the loan;•the credit history of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged against operations, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this 37allowance is determined by our management through periodic comprehensive reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•an ongoing review of the quality, size and diversity of the loan portfolio;•evaluation of non-performing loans;•historical default and loss experience;•existing economic conditions;•risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans; and•the amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees; securing the loans;•regulatory requirements and expectations.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Slower sales, excess inventory and declining prices in the housing market have been the primary causes of the recent increases in delinquencies and foreclosure in our loan portfolio. If current relatively weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examinations. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.At September 30, 2014 our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90 days or more past due, non-accrual investment securities, and other real estate owned and other repossessed assets) were $21.9 million, or 2.94% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:•We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or non-performing investment securities, except on a cash basis when the collectibility of the principal is not in doubt.•We must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses.•Non-interest expense increases when we must write down the value of properties in our OREO portfolio to reflect changing market values.•Non-interest income decreases when we must recognize other-than-temporary impairment on non-performing investment securities.•There are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance costs related to our OREO.•The resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have classified an additional $16.8 million in loans as performing troubled debt restructurings at September 30, 2014.If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation allowances, our earnings could be reduced.We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is taken in as OREO, and at certain other times during the assets holding period. Our net book value (“NBV”) in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated estimated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s NBV over its fair value. If our valuation process is incorrect or if the property declines in value after foreclosure, the fair value of our OREO may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for a valuation allowance.38In addition, bank regulators periodically review our OREO and may require us to recognize further valuation allowances. Significant charge-offs to our OREO, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Other-than-temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio could result in additional losses.During the year ended September 30, 2014, we recognized a $59,000 recovery of other than temporary impairment ("OTTI") charges on private label mortgage backed securities we hold for investment. However during the years ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 we recognized OTTI charges of $47,000 and $214,000, respectively, as management had previously estimated that the decline of the estimated fair value below the cost of these securities was other than temporary and recorded a credit loss through non-interest income. At September 30, 2014 our remaining private label mortgage backed securities portfolio totaled $1.2 million.We closely monitor our investment securities for changes in credit risk. The valuation of our investment securities also is influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, default rates on residential mortgage securities, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine our holdings of private label mortgage backed securities or other investment securities are other than temporarily impaired, our results of operations could be adversely affected.An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by Freddie Mac or our ability to qualify for their programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.The sale of residential mortgage loans to Freddie Mac provides a significant portion of our non-interest income. Any future changes in their program, our eligibility to participate in such program, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of Freddie Mac could, in turn, materially adversely affect our results of operations if we could not find other purchasers. Further, in a rising or higher interest rate environment, the demand for mortgage loans, particularly refinancing of existing mortgage loans, tend to fall and our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold. This would result in a decrease in mortgage revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with our loan sale activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.Our real estate lending also exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities.In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable by a governmental entity or by third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation, and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) our ability to originate and/or sell loans; (2) the fair value of our interest-earning assets, which would negatively impact shareholders’ equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (5) the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and the interest-earning assets. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic 39and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected.As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an increasing percentage of our deposits have been comprised of short-term certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest. At September 30, 2014, we had $98.5 million in certificates of deposit that mature within one year and $451.8 million in non-interest bearing, NOW checking, savings and money market accounts. We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. In addition, a substantial amount of our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit have adjustable interest rates. As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last six years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and until recently the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. For information with respect to changes in interest rates, see “-Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.”Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects.Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco ("FRB") and other borrowings to fund our operations. At September 30, 2014, we had $45.0 million of FHLB advances outstanding and a letter of credit with an available balance of $5.0 million and an additional $171.6 million of available borrowing capacity through the FHLB and the FRB. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Washington markets where our deposits are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us.Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our income may not increase proportionately to cover our costs.We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state laws and regulations, that are expected to increase our costs of operations.The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Timberland Bank is currently subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the DFI, our state regulator, and the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. As a bank holding company, Timberland Bancorp is subject to examination, supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. Such 40regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and consumers and not to benefit our shareholders. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets, and the determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses and level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against us could require us to devote significant time and resources to defending our business and may lead to penalties that materially affect us. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. As discussed under “Business - Regulation of the Bank - Financial Regulatory Reform” in Item I of this Form 10-K, the Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and will affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt and implement a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. It is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to us or what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written rules and regulations for implementation will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our non-interest expense. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.As discussed under “Business - Regulation of the Bank - New Capital Rules” in Item I of this Form 10-K, effective January 1, 2015, Timberland Bancorp and Timberland Bank will be subject to new capital requirements under regulations adopted by the federal banking regulators to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. These new requirements establish the following minimum capital ratios: (1) a common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio of 4.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of 4.0%. In addition, there is a new requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, in an amount greater than 2.5% of risk-weighted assets over the minimum capital required by each of the minimum risk-based capital ratios in order to avoid limitations on the organization’s ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or pay discretionary bonuses. The capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in, beginning January 1, 2016, requiring during 2016 a buffer amount greater than 0.625% in order to avoid these limitations, and increasing the amount each year until beginning January 1, 2019, the buffer amount must be greater than 2.5% in order to avoid the limitation.The new regulations also change what qualifies as capital for purposes of meeting these various capital requirements, as well as the risk-weights of certain assets for purposes of the risk-based capital ratios. Under the new regulations, in order to be considered well-capitalized for prompt corrective action purposes, Timberland Bank will be required to maintain the following ratios: (1) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5% of risk-weighted assets; (2) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8.0% of risk-weighted assets; (3) a total capital ratio of at least 10.0% of risk-weighted assets; and (4) a leverage ratio of at least 5.0%.We have conducted a pro forma analysis of these new requirements as of September 30, 2014. We have determined that if these requirements were in effect on that date, Timberland Bancorp and Timberland Bank would be considered well-capitalized.The application of these more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, over time require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, in the form of new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. At some point, we may need to raise additional capital to support our growth or replenish future losses. Our ability to raise additional 41capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we are able to raise capital it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, we may have to raise additional capital on terms that may be dilutive to our shareholders. We may experience future goodwill impairment, which could reduce our earnings.We performed our test for goodwill impairment for fiscal year 2014, and the test concluded that recorded goodwill was not impaired. Our assessment of the fair value of goodwill is based on an evaluation of market capitalizations for similar financial institutions, discounted cash flows from forecasted earnings, our current market capitalization, and a valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves a substantial amount of judgment. If our judgment was incorrect, or if events or circumstances change, and an impairment of goodwill was deemed to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill resulting in a charge against operations, which would adversely affect our results of operations, perhaps materially; however, it would have no impact on our liquidity, operations or regulatory capital.Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle stock may become impaired.At September 30, 2014, we owned $5.2 million in FHLB stock. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is recorded at cost, and it is subject to recoverability testing per applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the "FHFA"), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. In September 2012, the FHLB announced that the FHFA reclassified the FHLB of Seattle to be adequately capitalized. The FHLB also announced that it had been granted authority to repurchase up to $25 million of excess capital stock per quarter, provided they receive a non-objection from the FHFA. As of September 30, 2014, the FHLB had repurchased $409,000 of its stock, at par, from Timberland Bank. The FHLB announced in July 2013 that, based on its second quarter 2013 financial results, their Board of Directors had declared a $0.025 per share cash dividend. This represented the first dividend in a number of years and represents a significant milestone in FHLB's return to normal operations. Subsequently, the FHLB has declared additional cash dividends. As a result, we have not recorded an impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. Deterioration in the FHLB's financial position may, however, result in future impairment in the value of those securities. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investments. On September 25, 2014, the FHLB of Des Moines and the FHLB of Seattle announced that they have entered into an agreement to merge the two banks. A merger will require approval from the FHFA, as well as member-owners of the FHLB of Des Moines and the FHLB of Seattle. Although the agreement is still in process and has not yet been finalized and approved by regulatory agencies, management expects that the pending merger will positively affect the Company's recoverability of its investment in FHLB stock and continue to allow the Bank to obtain borrowings consistent with historical FHLB funding practices.We may experience decreases in the fair value of our mortgage servicing rights, which could reduce our earnings.Mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) are capitalized at estimated fair value when acquired through the origination of loans that are subsequently sold with servicing rights retained. At September 30, 2014 our MSRs totaled $1.7 million. MSRs are amortized to servicing income on loans sold over the period of estimated net servicing income. The estimated fair value of MSRs at the date of the sale of loans is determined based on the discounted present value of expected future cash flows using key assumptions for servicing income and costs and prepayment rates on the underlying loans. On a quarterly basis we evaluate the fair value of MSRs for impairment by comparing actual cash flows and estimated cash flows from the servicing assets to those estimated at the time servicing assets were originated. Our methodology for estimating the fair value of MSRs is highly sensitive to changes in assumptions, such as prepayment speeds. The effect of changes in market interest rates on estimated rates of loan prepayments represents the predominant risk characteristic underlying the MSRs portfolio. For example, a decrease in mortgage interest rates typically increases the prepayment speeds of MSRs and therefore decreases the fair value of the MSRs. Future decreases in mortgage interest rates could decrease the fair value of our MSRs below their recorded amount, which would decrease our earnings.42Our assets as of September 30, 2014 include a deferred tax asset and we may not be able to realize the full amount of such asset.We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement recorded amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. At September 30, 2014, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $2.3 million. The net deferred tax asset results primarily from our provision for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which has been larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting purposes.We regularly review our net deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our expectations of future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences and record a valuation allowance if deemed necessary. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carry-back years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at September 30, 2014 is fully realizable; however, if we determine that we will be unable to realize all or part of the net deferred tax asset, we would adjust the net deferred tax asset, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.The warrant we issued to the Treasury in connection with the Series A Preferred Stock issued in December 2008 may be dilutive to holders of our common stock.On June 12, 2013, the Treasury sold, to private investors, the warrant to purchase up to 370,899 shares of our common stock at a price of $6.73 per share at any time through December 23, 2018. The sale of the warrant to new owners did not result in any proceeds to the Company and did not change the Company's capital position or accounting for the warrant. The ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued in conjunction with the sale of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 5.0% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of September 30, 2014 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant in total shares outstanding). Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance.Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including legal and compliance risk, fraud and theft risk and the risk of operational errors, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.We are from time to time subject to claims and proceedings related to our operations. These claims and legal actions, which could include supervisory or enforcement actions by our regulators, or criminal proceedings, could involve large monetary claims, including civil money penalties or fines imposed by government authorities, and significant defense costs. To mitigate the cost of some of these claims, we maintain insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles that we believe are appropriate for our operations.Both internal and external fraud and theft are risks. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or if such information were to be intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.Operational errors include clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Because of our large transaction volume and our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process these transactions there is a risk that technical flaws or tampering or manipulation of those automated systems arising from events wholly or partially beyond our control may give rise to a disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are exposed to the risk that our business continuity and data security systems may prove to be inadequate.The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, additional costs to correct defects, potentially liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.43We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses, or other malicious code and cyber attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in significant legal liability and significant damage to our reputation and our business.Our security measures may not protect us from system failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the community banking industry where the Bank conducts its business. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. In addition, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the services of our directors, and we may not be able to identify and attract suitable candidates to replace such directors.Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects.We are dependent on our reputation within our market area, as a trusted and responsible financial company, for all aspects of our relationships with customers, employees, vendors, third-party service providers, and others, with whom we conduct business or potential future business. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could among other 44consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses.We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.Third party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.