Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties which may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The prices we pay for steel and other raw materials, and the prices we are able to charge our customers for our products, may fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, which could negatively impact the prices of our products, reduce our margins of profitability, and weaken our financial condition The principal raw material used in our operations is flat rolled carbon steel which we typically purchase from steel producers. The steel industry as a whole is cyclical. At times pricing and availability of steel can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, regional and international economic conditions, production levels, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. As a steel service center, we generally maintain substantial inventories of steel to accommodate the short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements of our customers. Accordingly, we purchase steel in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon historical buying practices, contracts with customers and market conditions. We generally purchase steel at prevailing market prices in effect at the time we place our orders. When raw material prices increase, competitive conditions will influence how much of the steel price increase can be passed on by us to our customers. When raw material prices are decreasing, we face the challenge of selling the inventory that we acquired at a relatively higher cost at the decreasing prices. Thus, decreases in raw material prices could result in lower sale prices and lower margins for our products. In recent years, our steel suppliers have been significantly impacted by the shortage of raw materials resulting in unprecedented cost increases affecting scrap, coke, iron ore and energy. This together with a number of additional factors, including the strength of the general economy, the increased consolidation of North American steel producers and the demands for steel from the Asian markets has affected the availability and prices of flat rolled carbon steel. In January 2004, North American steel producers implemented raw material surcharges to offset these costs. Accordingly, our raw material costs increased and, whenever possible, we passed on the surcharges to our customers. During 2005 however,most steel producers incorporated these surcharges into their all-inclusive price per product. We may not be able to pass on these price increases to our customers in the future. The occurrence of one or more of the above events could negatively impact in the prices of our products, reduce our margins or profitability, and weaken our financial condition. Our business may be affected by the cyclicality of the industries that purchase our products. Reduced demand from any one of these industries could result in lower operating income and profitability Certain of our products are sold to industries, including the automotive industry, that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on general economic conditions, seasonality and other factors beyond our control. As a result we may not be able to increase or maintain our level of sales or prices in periods of economic stagnation or downturn. Sales of our products for use in the automotive industry accounted for approximately 26.5% of our net sales in fiscal 2005 and approximately 21.4% of our net sales in fiscal 2004. Such sales include sales directly to the automobile manufacturers and to their component and parts suppliers as well as to manufacturers supplying the automotive “after market” components and parts. The automobile industry experiences fluctuation in demand based on numerous factors such as general economic conditions and consumer confidence. The automobile industry is also subject, from time to time, to labor problems, which may result in reduced demand for our products during work stoppages. 6 We may not be able to grow our business in the future or to manage our expansion effectively Historically, we have managed to grow our business internally and through acquisitions. In the future, we may not be able to identify and capture growth opportunities and therefore we may not be able to grow our business at the rate we did in the past or at all. Any new facility or operation or any future acquisitions, if completed, may not be profitable. In addition, the expansion of an existing facility or the construction of a new facility could hinder our results of operations due to the impact of start-up costs and the potential for underutilization in the start-up phase of a facility. Acquisitions could result in unforeseen difficulties in integrating the acquired businesses with our existing business and could divert a disproportionate amount of management time and attention. The incurrence of additional indebtedness to pay for expansion costs or acquisition costs could harm our liquidity and financial stability. Moreover, any issuance by us of common shares to effect acquisitions could result in dilution to our shareholders. Although we frequently evaluate potential acquisitions, we currently have no understandings, agreements or commitments to make any acquisitions. Our results of operations may be impacted and adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations that are beyond our control. Some of our revenues are derived from sales made by Canadian subsidiaries into the United States, which are denominated in U.S. dollars, and converted into Canadian dollars based upon the average monthly exchange rate at the time of sale. If we are not able to successfully hedge our currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact our results of operations and cash flow. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our Canadian operations subject us to currency translation risk which could cause our reported results to fluctuate significantly from period to period We receive a material portion of our revenue from our Canadian operations and as such our primary functional currency is the Canadian dollar. However, for each reporting period we translate the results of operations and financial condition into United States dollars. Therefore, our reported results of operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the two currencies. For example, as the relationship of the Canadian dollar strengthens against the U.S. dollar, our revenue, as reported, is favorably affected and conversely expenses are unfavorably affected. Fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar could negatively affect our results of operations and assets and liabilities as reported in our financial statements. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase our operating expenses and reduce our operating income The nature of our business may expose us to environmental liability claims, even if such claims are without merit. One of our subsidiaries, American Steel and Aluminum Corporation, or American Steel, was named as one of 19 defendants in an action brought in October 2001 by two private parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, to recover costs incurred and to be incurred in connection with a waste disposal facility in Cumberland, RI which has been categorized as a Superfund site by federal authorities. The complaint was subsequently amended twice to add additional defendants, aggregating to a total of 57 defendants. The plaintiffs claim that we are liable based upon alleged shipments to the site by American Steel, prior to its acquisition by us in 1996. The plaintiffs have identified over 100 potentially responsible parties, or PRPs. Additionally, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has issued claim notice letters to 63 parties, some of which are defendants in the lawsuit. We did receive, on or about April 25, 2003, an EPA claim letter seeking reimbursement of costs incurred and to be incurred at the site. American Steel responded to the claim by 7 denying liability for the site, but is also working with other PRPs to evaluate its options for resolving the matter. The plaintiffs seek recovery of investigative expenses incurred and to be incurred, together with a declaration of liability for all future remediation costs at the site. We do not believe it is currently possible to estimate our share, if any, of such investigative expenses or future remediation costs with reasonable certainty. The defendants have formed a PRP committee (in which we are participating) to monitor the site investigation. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against the claims raised in the action and we intend to defend our position vigorously should the litigation proceed. However, we may not prevail should the litigation proceed and any significant loss could reduce our earnings. In addition, our processing centers and manufacturing facilities are subject to many federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the United States and Canada relating to the protection of the environment. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws and regulations. We believe that our facilities are in material compliance with these laws and regulations, as such currently exist, and we do not believe that continued compliance with such existing laws and regulations will have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot predict the environmental laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies or stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may require additional expenditures by us which could vary substantially from those currently anticipated. Certain of the facilities that we occupy have been in operation for many years and, over such time, we and the prior owners or operators of such properties may have generated and disposed of wastes which are or may be considered hazardous. Accordingly, it is possible that additional environmental liabilities may arise in the future as a result of any such waste generation and disposal. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could prevent us from implementing our business strategy The success of our business is dependent upon the management and leadership of D. Bryan Jones, our chairman and chief executive officer, and certain other members of our senior management team. In addition, our decentralized corporate structure requires that each of our facility managers perform important management and leadership functions. The loss of any of these individuals or our inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel could adversely affect our ability to conduct, manage and grow our business. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel. Our business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profitability The principal markets that we serve are highly competitive. We compete on a regional basis with steel service centers and, to a certain degree, primary steel producers and intermediate steel processors. We have different competitors for each of our products and within each region that we serve. Certain of these competitors have financial and operating resources in excess of our financial and operating resources. Although we have been able to successfully compete in the past we may not be able to continue to do so. Increased competition could harm our net sales and profitability in the future. Our operations may be impacted by future labor negotiations or work stoppages Certain of our employees at 11 of our 23 facilities are organized by the United Steelworkers, the Teamsters, the Sheet Metal Workers and independent employees associations, representing in the aggregate approximately 317 of our 1,089 employees. Our labor contracts expire on staggered dates. The labor contract with the United Steelworkers covering 76 employees at our Granby, Québec facility has expired on February 21, 2006 and is currently being renegotiated. The labor contract with the Teamsters 8 covering 30 employees at one of our LaSalle, Québec facilities will expire on December 1, 2006. Widespread work stoppages could have a direct negative impact on our ability to conduct business, continue production, and on our earnings. We may incur additional risks as we continue to borrow money Our indebtedness may increase as we continue to borrow under existing or future credit arrangements in order to finance greenfield projects, expansion activities, future acquisitions and as we continue to borrow for our general corporate purposes. Risks of increased indebtedness include greater sensitivity to adverse economic conditions, the potential inability to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements, limits on our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the steel industry, limits on future borrowings under our existing or future credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, the inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments, and restrictions on our ability to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms. Restrictive loan covenants may limit our ability to develop greenfield projects or to pursue acquisitions Certain of our credit facilities contain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other restricted payments, dispose of or create a charge or lien on our assets, and make capital expenditures and other investments. These restrictions may limit our ability to develop greenfield projects, pursue acquisitions and achieve our growth strategies. We are dependent on our subsidiaries We have no direct business operations other than our ownership of the share capital of our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we are dependent on dividends, interest payments, management fees or other inter-company transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to enable us to meet our direct obligations. Our credit facilities restrict the payment to us of dividends and interest from our subsidiaries under certain conditions. If our customers, which are primarily North American manufacturing and industrial companies, relocate operations or outsource functions overseas, we could lose their business Our customer base is located in the United States and Canada and consists primarily of manufacturing and industrial companies. We do not currently operate facilities outside of North America. Therefore, in the event our customers relocate production operations or outsource particular functions overseas, we could lose their business, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. It may be difficult to trade our common shares Although our common shares are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, at times in the past there was a limited volume of trading of our common shares. Accordingly, investors may not be able to rapidly divest a portion of their common shares or liquidate their investment should they desire to do so. 9 The market price for our common shares may be volatile At times in the past, there has been substantial volatility in the market price for our common shares. In addition, the market price of our common shares could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including the following: · our results of operations or the results of operations of other companies in the steel processing industry; · changes in general conditions in the economy, the financial markets or the steel processing industry, including changes in the demand for steel; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by stock market analysts regarding us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions; and · increases in raw material costs and various other costs. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may result in a decrease of our share price, regardless of our results of operations. Future sales of our common shares could depress the market price of our common shares and diminish the value of your investment Future sales of our common shares could result in a decrease of the prevailing market price of our common shares, especially if our existing shareholders were to sell a large number of common shares, or if we were to issue a large number of our common shares. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell additional common shares could depress the market for our common shares. Our principal shareholders have the ability to exert significant control in matters requiring a shareholder vote and could delay, deter or prevent a change in control Approximately 68.1% of our outstanding common shares are beneficially owned by certain of our officers and directors. As a result, these officers and directors have and will collectively retain the power to elect our entire board of directors and to determine the outcome of any other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval. Through the foregoing persons continued concentration of voting power, they could delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our other shareholders. In deciding how to vote on such matters, such persons may be influenced by interests that conflict with yours. The staggered nature of our board of directors, as well as our articles of incorporation, could delay, deter or prevent a change of control Our board of directors currently consists of seven members. Our articles of incorporation provide for our board of directors to be divided into three groups, with staggered three-year terms. As a result, only one group of directors will be elected at each annual meeting of our shareholders. Further, our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to appoint, between annual meetings of shareholders, one or more additional directors who would hold office for a term expiring not later than the close of our following annual meeting of shareholders (unless such appointed directors are then elected as directors by our shareholders), provided that the total number of directors so appointed may not exceed one third of the number of directors elected at the previous annual meeting of our shareholders. 10 The staggered nature of our board of directors and our board’s ability to appoint one or more additional directors may make it more difficult for our shareholders to replace our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or preventing or delaying changes in control of our company that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. We do not intend to pay dividends We have never declared or paid dividends on our common shares in the past, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. At present, we intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and expansion. 