Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Music and Consumer Businesses Our Music and Consumer businesses face substantial competitive and other challenges that may prevent us from being successful in, and negatively impact future growth in, those businesses. Many of our current and potential competitors in our Music and Consumer businesses have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater resources than we do. Our competitors across the breadth of our product lines in these businesses include a number of large and powerful companies, such as Microsoft, Amazon.com and Apple. To effectively compete in the markets for our Music and Consumer businesses, we may experience the following consequences, any of which would adversely affect our operating results and the trading price of our stock: • reduced prices or margins, • loss of current and potential customers, or partners and potential partners who provide content we distribute to our customers, • changes to our products, services, technologies, licenses or business practices or strategies, • lengthened sales cycles, • pressure to prematurely release products or product enhancements, or • degradation in our stature and reputation in the market. In addition, we face the following risks relating to our Music, Media Software and Services and Games businesses: Music. Our online music services now offered through our Rhapsody America joint venture with MTVN face significant competition from traditional offline music distribution competitors and from other online digital music services, as well as online theft or “piracy.” Some of these competing online services have spent substantial amounts on marketing and have received significant media attention, including Apple’s iTunes music download service, which it markets closely with its popular iPod line of portable digital audio players and its iPhone. Microsoft also offers premium music services in conjunction with its Windows Media Player and also markets a portable music player and related download software and music service called Zune. We also expect increasing competition from online retailers such as Amazon.com, online community companies such as MySpace and Facebook, as well as other providers of free, ad-supported music services, some of whom are successfully growing consumer awareness of their services. Our online music services also face significant competition from “free” peer-to-peer services which allow consumers to directly access a wide variety of unlicensed content. Enforcement efforts have not effectively shut down these services and the ongoing presence of these “free” services substantially impairs the marketability of legitimate services like ours. To compete in this crowded market, we develop and work with partners to develop new and often unique marketing programs designed to build awareness of our music products and services and to attract subscribers. However, many of these marketing programs are unproven and may result in significant expenses we may not recoup due to the program’s failure to increase awareness or the number of subscribers to our music services. Rhapsody America may not be able to compete effectively in this highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, which may negatively impact the future growth of our Music business. Games. Our RealArcade, GameHouse, and Zylom branded services compete with other online aggregators and distributors of online and downloadable casual PC games. Some of these competitors 16 Table of Contents have high volume distribution channels and greater financial resources than we do. Our Games business also competes with many other smaller companies that may be able to adjust to market conditions faster than us. We also face an increasingly price competitive casual games market, and some of our competitors may be able to compete on price more effectively than us. We expect competition to intensify in this market from these and other competitors and no assurance can be made that we will be able to continue to grow our revenue. Our development studios compete primarily with other developers of online, downloadable and mobile casual PC games and must continue to develop popular and high-quality game titles and to execute on opportunities to expand the play of our games on a variety of non-PC platforms to maintain our competitive position and help maintain the growth of our Games business. Media Software and Services. Our media software and services (primarily our SuperPass subscription service) face competition from existing competitive alternatives and other emerging services and technologies, such as user generated content services like YouTube and alternative streaming media playback technologies including Microsoft Windows Media Player and Adobe Flash. Content owners are increasingly marketing their content on their own websites rather than licensing to other distributors such as us. We face competition in these markets from traditional media outlets such as television, radio, CDs, DVDs, videocassettes and others. We also face competition from emerging Internet media sources and established companies entering into the Internet media content market, including Time Warner’s AOL subsidiary, NBC Universal, Microsoft, Apple, Adobe, Yahoo! and broadband ISPs. We expect this competition to continue to be intense as the market and business models for Internet video content mature and more competitors enter these new markets. Competing services may be able to obtain better or more favorable access to compelling video content than us, may develop better offerings than us and may be able to leverage other assets or technologies to promote or distribute their offerings successfully. If we are unable to compete successfully, the future growth of our Media Software and Services business will be negatively impacted. In addition, our overall ability to sell subscription services depends in part on the use of RealNetworks’ formats on the Internet, and declines in the use of our formats may negatively affect our subscription revenue and increase costs of obtaining new subscribers. Both Microsoft and Adobe are aggressively seeking to grow their format usage. The success of our subscription services businesses depends upon our ability to increase subscription revenue and to license compelling content on commercially reasonable terms. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by the loss of subscription revenue, including the revenue generated from the online music services offered by our Rhapsody America joint venture. Internet subscription businesses are a relatively new media delivery model, and we cannot predict with accuracy our long-term ability to maintain or increase subscription revenue. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive content generally or as compared with competitive service offerings (including Internet piracy), or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. In recent periods, we have seen an increase in the number of gross customer cancellations of our subscription services due in part to an increasingly large subscriber base, an increase in involuntary credit card cancellations resulting in termination of service and increased prevalence and awareness of alternative “free” on-demand streaming music services. In addition, we must continue to obtain compelling digital media content for our video, music, and games services in order to maintain and increase usage and overall customer satisfaction for these products. Our online music service offerings available through our Rhapsody America venture depend on music licenses from the major music labels and publishers, and the failure to renew these licenses under terms that are commercially reasonable and acceptable to us would harm Rhapsody America’s ability to generate revenues from its subscription services. 17 Table of Contents Music publishing royalty rates for music subscription services offered through RealNetworks and Rhapsody America are not yet fully established; an unexpected modification or application of settlement terms could negatively impact our operating results. Publishing royalty rates associated with music subscription services in the U.S. and abroad are not fully established and public performance licenses are negotiated individually with performance rights organizations (PROs). On July 16, September 10, December 8 and December 12, 2008, a court issued rulings that set forth how royalties are to be calculated and address other matters relating to the application of the new rates to be paid to one of the PROs, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP). After working with ASCAP to make a final determination of amounts owed under the court’s rulings, we reached a partial agreement with ASCAP on January 12, 2009. While we believe we have sufficiently accrued for expected royalties to be paid under the agreement, we are appealing some aspects of the court’s rulings that underlie the agreement, and the rulings remain subject to appeal and challenge by other participants. We also have license agreements to reproduce musical compositions with the Harry Fox Agency, an agency that represents music publishers, and with many independent music publishers as required in the creation and delivery of on-demand streams and tethered downloads, but these license agreements generally do not include final royalty rates. The license agreements anticipate industry-wide agreement on rates, which was reached among the Digital Media Association (DiMA), the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and the National Music Publishers Association (NMPA), among others. This settlement was published by the Copyright Royalty Board (CRB) following an administrative judicial proceeding supervised by the U.S. Copyright Office. This settlement, with some modifications, is part of the CRB’s final determination as published in the Federal Register but it may be appealed. In addition, the U.S. Copyright Office has raised legal challenges to the CRB’s final determination, creating some uncertainty as to the application of the settlement terms set forth in CRB’s final determination. If terms of the settlement are modified or applied in a manner that we do not expect, we could incur increased expenses that could negatively impact our operating results. The publishing rates associated with our international music streaming services are also not yet determined and may be higher than our current estimates. An appeal of, or other industry settlement relating to, the April 2007 Copyright Royalty Board decision regarding Internet radio royalties and minimum payments could result in material expenses that would harm our operating results and our ability to provide popular radio services. In April 2007, the CRB issued a decision setting new royalty rates for the use of sound recordings in Internet radio from 2006 through 2010, which are currently under appeal. The appeal may result in rates or other terms that are unfavorable to us, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to provide our radio services in the future. Our RealDVD PC application is currently the subject of pending litigation, and we could incur significant expenses or be further prevented from selling RealDVD. On September 30, 2008, we announced the availability of RealDVD, a PC application that allows consumers to store, manage and play their DVDs on their computers. On the same day, we filed a motion for declaratory judgment against the DVD Copy Control Association and Disney Enterprises, Inc., Paramount Pictures Corp., Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., NBC Universal, Inc., Warner Bros., Entertainment, Inc. and Viacom, Inc. seeking a determination that, among other things, our RealDVD product complies with the DVD Copy Control Association’s license agreement. Various movie studios filed suit against us alleging that RealDVD violates the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and also asked for and were granted a temporary restraining order preventing us from selling RealDVD until a full preliminary injunction hearing could be held. Although we believe that our RealDVD product fully complies with the DVD Copy Control Association’s license agreement and enables consumers to exercise their legitimate, fair use rights to securely store DVD content on their hard drives, we may not ultimately prevail on our claims. These claims could be costly and time-consuming to assert and defend and could require us to pay significant litigation expenses or damages or result in a preliminary or permanent injunction against the sale of RealDVD, any of which would harm our operating results. 18 Table of Contents We may not be successful in maintaining and growing our distribution of digital media products. We cannot predict whether consumers will continue to download and use our digital media products consistent with past usage, especially in light of the fact that Microsoft bundles its competing Windows Media Player with its Windows operating system and the popularity of the Adobe Flash format. Our inability to maintain continued high volume distribution of our digital media products could hold back the growth and development of related revenue streams from these market segments, including the distribution of third-party products and sales of our subscription services, and therefore could harm our business and our prospects. We face risks with respect to certain matters in the governance and management of our Rhapsody America joint venture and the integration and operation of assets that have been combined to form Rhapsody America. We and MTVN have formed Rhapsody America LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. We own, through a wholly owned subsidiary, 51% of the limited liability company membership interests of Rhapsody America and MTVN owns, through a wholly owned subsidiary, the remaining 49%. We are entitled to appoint the general manager to manage the day-to-day operations of Rhapsody America. Rhapsody America is governed by a limited liability company agreement which, among other things, requires unanimous approval of the members for certain key operational activities, such as adopting a budget and authorizing certain capital expenditures, and for significant company events, such as mergers, asset sales, distributions, affiliate transactions and issuance, sale and repurchase of membership interests of Rhapsody America. If we are not able to agree with MTVN on any of those items, if the members are unable to agree on any other significant operational or financial matter requiring approval of the members, or if there is any event that adversely impacts our relationship with MTVN, the business, results of operations and financial condition of Rhapsody America may be adversely affected and, consequently, our business may suffer. In addition, MTVN may have or develop economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our or Rhapsody America’s business interests or goals. Neither we nor the current management of Rhapsody America has extensive experience in managing and operating complex joint ventures of this nature, and the integration and operational activities may strain our internal resources, distract us from managing our day-to-day operations, and impact our ability to retain key employees in Rhapsody America. The nature of our and MTVN’s contributions of services and assets to Rhapsody America required detailed cost allocation agreements that are complex to implement and manage and may result in significant costs that could adversely affect our operating results. The allocation of these support service costs is based on various measures depending on the service provided, and require significant internal resources. Many of the allocation methodologies are complicated, which may result in inaccuracies in the total charges to be billed to Rhapsody America. In addition, the variable nature of these costs to be allocated to Rhapsody America may result in fluctuations in the period-over-period results of our Music business. We and MTVN have certain contractual rights relating to the purchase and sale of MTVN’s membership interest in Rhapsody America that may be settled in part through the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which would dilute our other shareholders’ voting and economic interests in us, and may require us to pay MTVN a price that exceeds the appraised value of its proportionate interest in Rhapsody America. Pursuant to the terms of the Rhapsody America limited liability company agreement, we have a right to purchase from MTVN, and MTVN has a right to require us to purchase, MTVN’s membership interest in Rhapsody America. These call and put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and every two years thereafter and may be settled, in part, through the issuance of shares of our capital stock, subject to specified limitations. If a portion of the purchase price for MTVN’s membership interest is payable in shares of our capital stock, such shares could represent up to 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately prior to the transaction. In addition, we may also be obligated to issue shares of our non-voting stock representing up to an additional 4.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately prior to the transaction. If we pay a portion of the 19 Table of Contents purchase price for MTVN’s membership interest in shares of our common stock and non-voting stock, our other shareholders’ voting and economic interests in us will be diluted, and MTVN will become one of our significant shareholders. In certain situations, if MTVN exercises its right to require us to purchase its membership interests in Rhapsody America, we may be required to pay MTVN a price that provides a return to MTVN over the appraised value of MTVN’s proportionate interest in Rhapsody America, and as a result, we would pay greater than fair value to acquire MTVN’s interest. Risks Related to Our Technology Products and Solutions Business Contracts with our carrier customers subject us to significant risks that could negatively impact our revenue or otherwise harm our operating results. We derive a material portion of our revenue from carrier application services. Many of our carrier application services contracts provide for revenue sharing arrangements, but we have little control over the pricing decisions of our carrier customers. Furthermore, most of these contracts do not provide for guaranteed minimum payments or usage levels. Because most of our carrier customer contracts are nonexclusive, it is possible that our wireless carriers could purchase similar application services from third parties, and cease to use our services in the future. As a result, our revenue derived under these agreements could be substantially reduced depending on the pricing and usage decisions of our carrier customers. In addition, none of our carrier application services contracts obligates our carrier customers to market or distribute any of our applications. Despite the lack of marketing commitments, revenue related to our application services is, to a large extent, dependent upon the marketing and promotion activities of our carrier customers. In addition, many of our carrier contracts are short term and allow for early termination by the carrier with or without cause. These contracts are therefore subject to renegotiation of pricing or other key terms that could be adverse to our interests, and leave us vulnerable to non-renewal by the carriers. The loss of carrier customers, a reduction in marketing or promotion of our applications, or the termination, non-renewal or renegotiation of contract terms that are less favorable to us would likely result in the loss of future revenues from our carrier application services. Finally, certain of our carrier contracts obligate us to indemnify the carrier customer for certain liabilities and losses incurred by them, including liabilities resulting from third party claims for damages that arise out of the use of our technology. These indemnification terms provide us with certain procedural safeguards, including the right to control the defense of the indemnified party. We have accepted tenders of indemnification from two of our carrier customers related to one pending patent infringement proceeding, and we are vigorously defending them. This pending proceeding or future claims against which we may be obligated to defend our carrier customers could result in paying amounts pursuant to these obligations that could materially harm our operating results. The mobile entertainment market is highly competitive. The market for mobile entertainment services, including ringback tone and music-on-demand solutions, is highly competitive. Current and potential future competitors include major media companies, Internet portal companies, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play wireless entertainment publishers. In connection with music-on-demand in particular, we may in the future compete with current providers of music-on-demand services for online or other non-mobile platforms, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, the major music labels may demand more aggressive revenue sharing arrangements or impose an alternative business model less favorable to us. In addition, while most of our carrier customers do not offer internally developed application services that compete with ours, if our carrier customers begin developing these application services internally, we could be forced to lower our prices or increase the amount of service we provide in order to maintain our business with those carrier customers. Increased competition has in the past resulted in pricing pressure, forcing us to lower the selling price of our services. 20 Table of Contents A majority of the revenue that we generate in our Technology Products and Solutions business is dependent upon our relationship with a few customers, including SK Telecom; any deterioration of these relationships could materially harm our business. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales of our mobile entertainment services to a few of our mobile carrier customers, including SK Telecom, a leading wireless carrier in South Korea. In the near term, we expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our total revenue from these customers, particularly SK Telecom. If these customers fail to market or distribute our applications or terminate their business contracts with us, or if our relationships with these customers deteriorate in any significant way, we may be unable to replace the affected business arrangements with acceptable alternatives. Furthermore, our relationship with SK Telecom may be affected by the general state of the economy of South Korea. Failure to maintain our relationships with these customers could have a material negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Our traditional system software licensing business has been negatively impacted by competitive factors, and we may not experience improved sales of our system software products. We believe that our traditional system software sales have been negatively impacted primarily by the competitive effects of Microsoft, which markets and often bundles its competing technology with its market leading operating systems and server software. Although the settlement agreement we entered into with Microsoft relating to our claims regarding Microsoft’s anticompetitive practices contained substantial cash payments to us and a series of technology agreements, Microsoft will continue to be an aggressive competitor with our traditional systems software business. We cannot be sure whether the portions of the settlement agreement designed to limit Microsoft’s ability to leverage its market power will be effective, and we cannot predict when, or if, we will experience increased demand for our system software products in a way that improves our operating results or shareholder return on an investment in our stock. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The trading price for our common stock has been volatile, ranging from $2.93 to $7.61 per share during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2008. As a result of the rapidly changing markets in which we compete, our operating results may fluctuate from period-to-period, which may continue to contribute to the volatility of our stock price. In past periods, our operating results have been affected by personnel reductions and related charges, charges relating to losses on excess office facilities, and impairment charges for certain of our equity investments, goodwill and other long-lived assets. Our operating results may be adversely affected by similar or other charges or events in future periods, including, but not limited to: • impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets, • integrating and operating newly acquired businesses and assets, • the seasonality of our business, which has experienced increased revenues in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, and • the general difficulty in forecasting our operating results and metrics, which could result in actual results that differ significantly from expected results. Certain of our expense decisions (for example, research and development and sales and marketing efforts) are based on predictions regarding business and the markets in which we compete. Fluctuations in our operating results, particularly when experienced beyond what we expected, could cause the trading price of our stock to continue to fluctuate. 21 Table of Contents Uncertainty and adverse conditions in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The national and global economic downturn has resulted in a decline in overall consumer and corporate spending, declines in consumer and corporate access to credit, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, declines in the value of assets and increased liquidity risks, all of which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide digital entertainment services to consumers, and payment for our products and services may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential customers. As a result, consumers considering whether to purchase our products or services may be influenced by macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending such as unemployment, continuing increases in fuel costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets and access to credit. To the extent conditions in the economy remain uncertain or the economy continues to deteriorate, our business could be impacted as customers choose to leave our services, to reduce their service level or to stop purchasing our products. In addition, our efforts to attract new customers may be adversely affected. Declines in consumer spending may also negatively impact our business customers, including our mobile carrier customers, who may experience decreases in demand for the services we provide that are offered to their subscribers. We are also experiencing a decline in advertising revenue as businesses are reducing their sales and marketing spending in response to the contracting economy. A significant decrease in the demand for our products or services or declines in our advertising revenue could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty and adverse economic conditions may also lead to a decreased ability to collect payment for our products and services due primarily to a decline in the ability of consumers to use or access credit, including through credit cards, which is how most of our customers pay for our products and services. We also expect to continue to experience volatility in foreign exchange rates, which could negatively impact the amount of revenue and net assets we record in future periods. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency of the country in which each subsidiary operates. We translate our subsidiaries’ revenues into U.S. dollars in our financial statements, and continued volatility in foreign exchange rates, particularly if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the euro or the Korean won, may result in lower reported revenue. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, we may also record additional impairments to our assets in future periods, particularly goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets, which are discussed in more detail below. Economic conditions may also negatively impact our liquidity due to (1) declines in interest income, (2) an increased risk that we may not be able to access cash balances held in U.S. or foreign financial institutions or that our investments in debt securities issued by financial institutions may become worthless due to the nationalization or failure of such financial institutions, and (3) decreased ability to sell the securities and the institutional money market funds we hold as short-term investments. In addition, the decline in the trading price of shares of our common stock may make it difficult to use our common stock as purchase price consideration for future acquisitions and to raise funds through equity financings. If any of these risks are realized, we may experience a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. New products and services may not achieve market acceptance or may be subject to legal challenge that could negatively affect our operating results. The process of developing new, and enhancing existing, products and services is complex, costly and uncertain. Our business depends on providing products and services that are attractive to subscribers and consumers, which, in part, is subject to unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences and competing products and services. Any failure by us to timely respond to or accurately anticipate consumers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends could significantly harm our current market share or result in the loss of market opportunities. In addition, we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect consumer demand for our products and services, which may result in no return or a loss on our investments. Furthermore, new products and services may be subject to legal challenge. Responding to these potential claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on 22 Table of Contents unfavorable terms, require us to stop distributing or selling, or to redesign our products or services, or to pay damages. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel, but may be unable to attract and retain them, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees, including Robert Glaser, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Glaser or other key executive officers or employees could harm our business. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled management, technical, and sales personnel, both in our domestic operations and as we expand internationally. Qualified individuals are in high demand and competition for such qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may incur significant costs to retain or attract them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the key personnel necessary to sustain our business or support future growth. Acquisitions involve costs and risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired technologies and businesses in the past and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. Since late 2006 through the second quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of WiderThan and the acquisitions of Sony NetServices GmbH, Exomi Oy, Game Trust and substantially all of the assets of Trymedia Systems, Inc. The failure to adequately manage the costs and address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by acquisitions of technology and businesses could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the benefits of the acquisitions. Acquisition-related costs and financial risks related to completed and potential future acquisitions may harm our financial position, reported operating results, or stock price. Previous acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased technology, amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets and the incurrence of non-cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2008, which are reflected in our operating expenses. New acquisitions and any potential additional future impairment of the value of purchased assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. Acquisitions also involve operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from an acquisition. These operational risks include: • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems, and/or personnel of the acquired company; • retaining key management or employees of the acquired company; • entrance into unfamiliar markets, industry segments, or types of businesses; • operating and integrating acquired businesses in remote locations; • integrating and managing businesses based in countries in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management time and other resources from existing operations to integration activities for acquired businesses; • impairment of relationships with employees, affiliates, advertisers or content providers of our business or acquired business; and • assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims. 23 Table of Contents An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we are required to annually test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that an impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we revised our long term operating plan. Our operating plan was a significant input in evaluating the fair value of our reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill for possible impairment. The expected impact resulting from the significant declines observed in the broader economy during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 were reflected in the plan. Additionally, in light of the uncertainty regarding the extent of future economic declines, we applied discount rates in our cash flow analysis that appropriately reflected the possibility that cash flows from future operations may not be fully realized. As a result, we determined that the carrying value for our Games and Technology Products and Solutions reporting units exceeded their respective fair values, indicating that goodwill within each reporting unit was potentially impaired. No impairments were indicated under the first step for our Music and Media Software and Services reporting units. As required, we initiated the second step of the goodwill impairment test for our Games and Technology Products and Solutions reporting units. We determined that the implied fair value of goodwill for our Technology Products and Solutions and Games reporting units was less than the carrying value by approximately $97.0 million and $38.1 million, respectively, which was recorded as an impairment of goodwill during the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or potential changes in the share price of our common stock and market capitalization. Significant and sustained declines in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows or a significant adverse change in our business climate, among other factors, could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under SFAS No. 142 in future interim periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible asset. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An impairment in the carrying value of our long-lived assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Long-lived assets consist primarily of equipment, software and leasehold improvements, as well as amortizable intangible assets acquired in business combinations. Long-lived assets are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. In accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset over its respective fair value, which is generally determined as the present value of estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The impairment analysis is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management, including operating and cash flow projections. During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, we revised our long term operating plan. Our operating plan was a significant input in assessing the recoverability of our long-lived assets. The expected impact resulting from the significant declines observed in the broader economy during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 were reflected in our plan. Additionally, in light of the uncertainty regarding the extent of future economic declines, we applied discount rates in our discounted cash flow analysis that appropriately reflected the possibility that cash flows from future operations may not be fully realized. Based on this assessment, we concluded that the net book value related to certain intangible assets exceeded the fair value attributable to such intangible assets. As a result, we 24 Table of Contents recorded charges of $57.6 million as impairments of long-lived assets within our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income in 2008. No such impairments were recognized in either 2007 or 2006. The impairment analysis for long-lived assets is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management, including revenue and cash flow projections. Significant or sustained declines in future revenue or cash flows, or adverse changes in our business climate, among other factors, could result in the need to perform an impairment analysis under SFAS No. 144 in future interim periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of long-lived assets. Should the value of our long-lived assets become impaired, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We need to develop relationships and technical standards with manufacturers of non-PC media and communication devices and interoperability of our services with these devices to grow our business. Access to the Internet through devices other than a PC, such as personal digital assistants, cellular phones, television set-top devices, game consoles, Internet appliances and portable music and games devices has increased dramatically and is expected to continue to increase. If a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers do not license and incorporate our technology and services into their devices, we may fail to capitalize on the opportunity to deliver digital media to non-PC devices which could harm our business prospects. In addition, in order for our services, in particular, the digital music services offered through Rhapsody America, to continue to grow, we must design services that interoperate effectively with a variety of hardware devices. To achieve this interoperability, we and Rhapsody America depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these products and with software manufacturers that create the operating systems for such hardware devices to achieve our objectives. If we do not successfully make our products and technologies compatible with emerging standards and the most popular devices used to access digital media or successfully design our service to interoperate with the music playback devices that our customers own, we may miss market opportunities and our business and results will suffer. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights or leverage our patent portfolio, and may face risks associated with third-party claims relating to our intellectual property. Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our patent portfolio and other technology, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. However, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not assure our ownership rights in our intellectual property, protect or enhance the competitive position of our products and services or effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. As disputes regarding the validity and scope of patents or the ownership of technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution, and online businesses are common and likely to arise in the future, we may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our patents and other intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or redesign our product features and services. Any such dispute would likely be costly and distract our management, and the outcome of any such dispute could fail to improve our business prospects or otherwise harm our business. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our technology may infringe the third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. Currently we are investigating or litigating a variety of such pending claims, some of which are described in Note 17 to the financial statements included in this report. 25 Table of Contents Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks fail, become unavailable, unsecured or perform poorly so that current or potential users do not have adequate access to our products, services and websites. Our ability to provide our products and services to our customers and operate our business depends on the continued operation and security of our information systems and networks. A significant or repeated reduction in the performance, reliability, security or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could harm our ability to conduct our business, and harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain users, customers, advertisers and content providers. We have on occasion experienced system errors and failures that caused interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time. Problems with our systems and networks could result from our failure to adequately maintain and enhance these systems and networks, natural disasters and similar events, power failures, HVAC failures, intentional actions to disrupt our systems and networks and many other causes. The vulnerability of a large portion of our computer and communications infrastructure is enhanced because much of it is located at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake, flood, and volcanic events. Many of our services do not currently have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. Our international operations involve risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language, and cultural differences, different or conflicting laws and regulations, taxes, and exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could harm operating results and financial condition. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with the data collection capabilities of our products and services. Many of our products are interactive Internet applications that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information to our servers. Many of the services we provide also require that a user provide certain information to us. We have an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy and existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation, and harm our business. We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. Currently we do not collect sales, value-added tax (VAT), transactional or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services in states and countries other than those in which we have offices, employees or other taxable presence. However, one or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales, VAT, transactional or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should be collecting sales, VAT, transactional or other taxes on the sale of our products, licenses of technology, provision of services or from our Internet commerce activities could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our products from us or otherwise substantially harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the ability of states to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states and the U.S. Congress have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on products and services sold through the Internet. If these initiatives are successful, we 26 Table of Contents could be required to collect and remit sales and use taxes in additional states. States are also continuing to define the taxability of digital goods. Taxation of digital goods is subject to complex evolving tax rules that could result in additional taxation of our products and services. The imposition of additional tax obligations related to our business activities by state and local governments could materially adversely affect our operating results, create administrative burdens for us and decrease our future sales. In those countries where we have taxable presence, we collect VAT on sales of “electronically supplied services” provided to European Union residents, including software products, games, data, publications, music, video and fee-based broadcasting services. The collection and remittance of VAT subjects us to additional currency fluctuation risks. We may be subject to additional income tax assessments. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, income taxes payable, and net deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical financial statements. An audit or litigation can result in significant additional income taxes payable in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Previously Announced Separation of Our Games Business We announced our intention to separate our global Games business into an independent company and to distribute shares of the newly created games company to our shareholders. If such transactions are postponed for a significant period of time or not completed, our stock price and business may be adversely affected, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the separation transactions. In May 2008, we announced our intention to separate our global Games business into an independent company and to distribute shares of the newly created games company to our shareholders. We also indicated that we may precede the spin-off with an initial public offering and sale of up to 20% of the shares of the new games company. In February 2009, we announced that we postponed work with our outside advisors, stopped external spending on the proposed transaction and wrote off the capitalized transaction-related costs in the fourth quarter of 2008. While we still intend to create a separate games company, current conditions do not support a separation transaction. In addition, our business and operations may be harmed to the extent there is customer or employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our product and service offerings and strategy for our Games business. Even if we resume working with our outside advisors on the separation transaction, we may not complete the transaction, which is subject to a number of factors including market conditions, the final approval of our board of directors, the effectiveness of a registration statement, the receipt of a favorable letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and the execution of inter-company agreements. If the separation transactions are not completed, we and our shareholders will not realize the anticipated financial, operational and other benefits from such transactions. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our directors and executive officers beneficially own more than 38% of our stock, which gives them significant control over certain major decisions on which our shareholders may vote, may discourage an acquisition of us, and any significant sales of stock by our officers and directors could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own more than 38% of our common stock. Robert Glaser, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns more than 27 Table of Contents 38% of our common stock himself. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of RealNetworks, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Washington law could discourage our acquisition by a third-party. Our articles of incorporation provide for a strategic transaction committee of the board of directors. Without the prior approval of this committee, and subject to certain limited exceptions, the board of directors does not have the authority to: • adopt a plan of merger; • authorize the sale, lease, exchange or mortgage of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of our assets prior to the transaction or on which our long-term business strategy is substantially dependent; • authorize our voluntary dissolution; or • take any action that has the effect of any of the above. In addition, Mr. Glaser has special rights under our articles of incorporation to appoint or remove members of the strategic transaction committee at his discretion that could make it more difficult for RealNetworks to be sold or to complete another change of control transaction without Mr. Glaser’s consent. RealNetworks has also entered into an agreement providing Mr. Glaser with certain contractual rights relating to the enforcement of our charter documents and Mr. Glaser’s roles and authority within RealNetworks. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which was amended and restated in December 2008, that provides that shares of our common stock have associated preferred stock purchase rights. The exercise of these rights would make the acquisition of RealNetworks by a third-party more expensive to that party and has the effect of discouraging third parties from acquiring RealNetworks without the approval of our board of directors, which has the power to redeem these rights and prevent their exercise. Washington law imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The foregoing provisions of our charter documents, shareholder rights plan, our agreement with Mr. Glaser, and Washington law, as well as our charter provisions that provide for a classified board of directors and the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions may therefore have the effect of limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents 