Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Music, Games and Media Software and Services Businesses We require the consent of Viacom International Inc. with respect to certain matters in the governance and management of our Rhapsody America joint venture. Any disagreement with Viacom on such matters may have an adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of Rhapsody America and, consequently, our business. We and MTVN have formed Rhapsody America LLC, a Delaware limited liability company. We own, through a wholly owned subsidiary, 51% of the limited liability company membership interests of Rhapsody America and MTVN owns, through a wholly owned subsidiary, the remaining 49%. We are entitled to appoint the general manager to manage the day-to-day operations of Rhapsody America. Rhapsody America is 14 Table of Contents governed by a limited liability company agreement which, among other things, requires unanimous approval of the members for certain actions, including but not limited to the following: • authorizing the annual operating budget and making capital expenditures in excess of a certain percentage over the budgeted amount for capital expenditures; • the issuance, sale or repurchase of Rhapsody America’s membership interests; • declaring of or making any distribution by Rhapsody America; • merging, consolidating or reorganizing Rhapsody America, acquiring or selling assets not in the ordinary course of business in excess of a certain amount, or acquiring or selling businesses valued in excess of a certain amount; • entering into any transaction with a value in excess of a certain amount with our affiliates or affiliates of MTVN; and • the appointment of a new general manager if the existing general manager is required to resign as a result of Rhapsody America not meeting certain financial tests. If we are not able to agree with MTVN on any of the foregoing items, or if the members are unable to agree on any other significant operational or financial matter requiring approval of the members, the business, results of operations and financial condition of Rhapsody America may be adversely affected and, consequently, our business may suffer. If there is a change in management or change of control of MTVN or any other event occurs that adversely impacts our relationship with MTVN, the business, results of operations and financial condition of Rhapsody America may be adversely affected. MTVN’s investments or activities generally may from time to time conflict with our interests or those of Rhapsody America. MTVN may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our or Rhapsody America’s business interests or goals. The integration strategy we plan to implement with respect to the assets that have been combined in Rhapsody America may fail or be less successful than anticipated and the management of these assets creates operational complexities. Our realization of the anticipated benefits of Rhapsody America will depend on our ability to integrate the assets contributed by us and MTVN. Neither we nor the current management of Rhapsody America have extensive experience in managing and operating complex joint ventures of this nature and the integration and operational activities may strain our internal resources, distract us from managing our day-to-day operations, and impact our ability to retain key employees in Rhapsody America. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to successfully integrate and manage these assets. The nature of our and MTVN’s contributions of services and assets to Rhapsody America required detailed cost allocation agreements that are complex to implement and manage and may result in significant costs that could adversely affect our operating results. For example, the advertising commitment from MTVN includes direct and integrated marketing services and programs, some of which may be difficult to value and may not generate expected returns. In addition, we are required to provide various support services, including facilities, information technology systems, personnel and other corporate administrative support, to Rhapsody America. The allocation of these support service costs is based on various measures depending on the service provided, much of which must be tracked and then accounted for and reported to Rhapsody America on a periodic basis. Tracking and reporting these costs require significant internal resources, and many of the allocation methodologies are complicated, which may result in inaccuracies in the total charges to be billed to Rhapsody America. In addition, the variable nature of these costs to be allocated to Rhapsody America may result in fluctuations in the period-over-period results of our Music business. 15 Table of Contents We and MTVN have certain contractual rights relating to the purchase and sale of MTVN’s membership interest in Rhapsody America that may be settled in part through the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock, which would dilute our other shareholders’ voting and economic interests in us, and may require us to pay MTVN a price that exceeds the appraised value of their proportionate interest in Rhapsody America. Pursuant to the terms of the Rhapsody America limited liability company agreement, we have a right to purchase from MTVN, and MTVN has a right to require us to purchase, MTVN’s membership interest in Rhapsody America. These call and put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods in each of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and every two years thereafter and may be settled, in part, through the issuance of shares of our capital stock, subject to specified limitations. If a portion of the purchase price for MTVN’s membership interest is payable in shares of our capital stock, such shares could represent up to 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately prior to the transaction. In addition, we may also be obligated to issue shares of our non-voting stock representing up to an additional 4.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock immediately prior to the transaction. If we pay a portion of the purchase price for MTVN’s membership interest in shares of our common stock and non-voting stock, our other shareholders’ voting and economic interests in us will be diluted, and MTVN will become one of our significant shareholders. In certain situations, if MTVN exercises its right to require us to purchase its membership interests in Rhapsody America, we may be required to pay MTVN a price that provides a return to MTVN over the appraised value of MTVN’s proportionate interest in Rhapsody America. The success of our subscription services businesses depends upon our ability to increase subscription revenue. Our operating results could be adversely impacted by the loss of subscription revenue. Internet subscription businesses are a relatively new media delivery model and we cannot predict with accuracy our long-term ability to maintain or increase subscription revenue. Subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to our services for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the services sufficiently or that the service does not provide enough value, a lack of attractive or exclusive content generally or as compared to competitive service offerings (including Internet piracy), or because customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. In recent periods, we have seen an increase in the number of gross customer cancellations of our subscription services due in part to an increasingly large subscriber base. As our subscription business evolves, we have increased our focus on “free-to-consumer” products and services. In addition, certain subscription based products and services with mobile carriers and broadband service providers are sold on a flat-fee or revenue-share basis. It is not clear what the long-term impact of this evolution will have on our subscription revenue. Our digital content subscription business, and our online music services in particular, depend on our continuing ability to license compelling content on commercially reasonable terms. We must continue to obtain compelling digital media content for our video, music, and games services in order to maintain and increase usage, subscription service revenue, and overall customer satisfaction for these products. Our online music service offerings now available through our Rhapsody America venture depend on music licenses from the major music labels and publishers, and the failure of any such parties to renew these licenses under terms that are acceptable to us would harm Rhapsody America’s ability to offer successful music subscription services and therefore our operating results. If we cannot obtain premium digital content for any of our digital content subscription services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our business will be harmed. RealPlayer 11 may not achieve consumer or market acceptance and may be subject to legal challenge. We launched a new version of our media delivery software, RealPlayer 11. Consumers can use RealPlayer 11 to record and download videos from websites on the Internet with a single click on a “Download this Video” button that appears in the consumer’s web browser when a video is playing. Consumers can also simultaneously download and record multiple videos in a number of popular formats and can save the videos to CDs with the free version of RealPlayer 11 and to DVDs with a premium version that can be purchased 16 Table of Contents through our websites. We cannot predict the rate of adoption or level of usage of RealPlayer 11 or whether it will lead to increased sales of any of our consumer products or services. Although we believe RealPlayer 11 is legal, there are risks associated with the distribution of RealPlayer 11, including the risk that content owners may claim that the recording and downloading of their content with RealPlayer 11 infringes their intellectual property rights even though RealPlayer 11 automatically recognizes and will not download content protected by digital rights management. Responding to these potential claims may require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, require us to stop distributing or selling, or to redesign, RealPlayer 11, or to pay damages. Music publishing royalty rates for music subscription services offered through RealNetworks and Rhapsody America are not yet fully established; a determination of high royalty rates could negatively impact our operating results. Publishing royalty rates associated with music subscription services in the U.S. and abroad are not fully established. Public performance licenses are negotiated individually, and we have not yet agreed to rates with all of the performing rights societies for all of our music subscription service activities, including those now conducted by Rhapsody America. We or Rhapsody America may be required to pay a rate that is higher than we expect, as the issue was recently submitted to a “Rate Court” by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) for judicial determination. We have license agreements to reproduce musical compositions with the Harry Fox Agency, an agency that represents music publishers, and with many independent music publishers as required in the creation and delivery of on demand streams and tethered downloads, but these license agreements do not include final royalty rates. The license agreements anticipate industry-wide agreement on rates, or, if no industry-wide agreement can be reached, determination by a copyright royalty board (CRB), an administrative judicial proceeding supervised by the U.S. Copyright Office. If the rates agreed to or determined by a CRB or by Congress are higher than we expect, the increased expense could negatively impact our operating results. The publishing rates associated with our international music streaming services are also not yet determined and may be higher than our current estimates. An appeal of, or other industry settlement relating to, the April 2007 Copyright Royalty Board decision regarding Internet radio royalties and minimum payments could result in material expenses that would harm our operating results and our ability to provide popular radio services. In April 2007, the Copyright Royalty Board (CRB) issued a decision setting new royalty rates for the use of sound recordings in Internet radio from 2006 through 2010. These rates are still under appeal and are also subject to industry-wide settlement negotiations, in some of which we are a participant. The appeal or other industry settlement, whether or not we directly participate in the settlement, may result in higher rates or other terms that are unfavorable to us, which could adversely impact our operating results and our ability to provide our radio services in the future. Our music, games and media software and services businesses face substantial competitive challenges that may prevent us from being successful in, and negatively impact future growth in, those businesses. Music. Our online music services now offered through our Rhapsody America joint venture with MTVN face significant competition from traditional offline music distribution competitors and from other online digital music services, as well as online theft or “piracy.” Some of these competing online services have spent substantial amounts on marketing and have received significant media attention, including Apple’s iTunes music download service, which it markets closely with its extremely popular iPod line of portable digital audio players and its iPhone. Microsoft has also begun offering premium music services in conjunction with its Windows Media Player and also markets a portable music player and related download software and music service called Zune. We also expect increasing competition from online retailers such as Amazon.com. Our online music services also face significant competition from “free” peer-to-peer services which allow consumers to directly access a wide variety of free content without securing licenses from content providers. Enforcement efforts have not effectively shut down these services and there can be no assurance that these 17 Table of Contents services will ever be shut down. The ongoing presence of these “free” services substantially impairs the marketability of legitimate services like ours. Rhapsody America may not be able to compete effectively in this highly competitive market, which may negatively impact the future growth of our Music business. Media Software and Services. Our media software and services (primarily our SuperPass subscription service) face competition from existing competitive alternatives and other free emerging services and technologies, such as user generated content services like YouTube and alternative streaming media playback technologies including Microsoft Windows Media Player and Adobe Flash. Content owners are increasingly marketing their content on their own websites rather than licensing to other distributors such as us. We face competition in these markets from traditional media outlets such as television, radio, CDs, DVDs, videocassettes and others. We also face competition from emerging Internet media sources and established companies entering into the Internet media content market, including Time Warner’s AOL subsidiary, Microsoft, Apple, Adobe, Yahoo! and broadband ISPs. We expect this competition to continue to be intense as the market and business models for Internet video content mature and more competitors enter these new markets. Competing services may be able to obtain better or more favorable access to compelling video content than us, may develop better offerings than us and may be able to leverage other assets to promote their offerings successfully. If we are unable to compete successfully, the future growth of our Media Software and Services business will be negatively impacted. Games. Our RealArcade, GameHouse, and Zylom branded services compete with other online distributors of downloadable casual PC games. Some of these distributors have high volume distribution channels and greater financial resources than we do, including Yahoo! Games, MSN Gamezone, Pogo.com, and Shockwave. We expect competition to intensify in this market from these and other competitors and no assurance can be made that we will be able to continue to grow our revenue. Our GameHouse, Zylom, and Mr. Goodliving content development studios compete with other developers and publishers of downloadable PC and mobile games. Our development studios compete primarily with other developers of downloadable and mobile casual PC games and must continue to develop popular and high-quality game titles to maintain our competitive position and help maintain the growth of our Games business. We may not be successful in maintaining and growing our distribution of digital media products. We cannot predict whether consumers will continue to download and use our digital media products consistent with past usage, especially in light of the fact that Microsoft bundles its competing Windows Media Player with its Windows operating system and the popularity of the Adobe Flash format. Our inability to maintain continued high volume distribution of our digital media products could hold back the growth and development of related revenue streams from these market segments, including the distribution of third-party products, and therefore could harm our business and our prospects. The success of music services offered through Rhapsody America depend, in part, on interoperability with our customers’ music playback hardware. In order for the digital music services offered through Rhapsody America to continue to grow, we must design services that interoperate effectively with a variety of hardware products, including portable digital audio players, mobile handsets, home stereos and PCs. We and Rhapsody America depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these products and with software manufacturers that create the operating systems for such hardware devices to achieve our objectives. To date, Apple has not agreed to design its popular iPod line of portable digital audio players or its new iPhone to function with our music services. If we cannot successfully design our service to interoperate with the music playback devices that our customers own, our business will be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Technology Products and Solutions Business Recent acquisitions in our Technology Products and Solutions business could expose us to new risks, disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations. In November 2006, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of WiderThan Co., Ltd. (WiderThan). We also acquired Sony NetServices GmbH (SNS) and Exomi Oy (Exomi) in May 2007 and June 2007, respectively. The integration of these acquisitions, particularly WiderThan, is continuing and may divert the attention of management and other key personnel from other core business operations, which could adversely impact our financial performance in the near term. Moreover, the integration of WiderThan’s operations into the Company will require expansions to our system of internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to successfully operate and integrate WiderThan could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our businesses may be adversely affected by developments affecting the South Korean economy amid increased tensions with North Korea. With the acquisition of WiderThan, we generate a material portion of our revenue from operations in the Republic of Korea (South Korea). On a consolidated basis, during the year ended December 31, 2007 we derived 15% of our revenue from our operations in South Korea and expect that we will generate a portion of our revenue from South Korea in 2008. Operating in this market subjects us to risks that were not previously relevant to us, including risks associated with the general state of the economy in South Korea and the potential instability of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea). Relations between South Korea and North Korea have been tense throughout Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of South Korea and North Korea. Any further increase in tensions, which may occur, for example, if high-level contacts break down or military hostilities occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our traditional system software licensing business has been negatively impacted by the effects of our competitors, and our settlement agreement with Microsoft may not improve sales of our system software products. We believe that our traditional system software sales have been negatively impacted primarily by the competitive effects of Microsoft, which markets and often bundles its competing technology with its market leading operating systems and server software. Although the settlement agreement we entered into with Microsoft relating to our claims regarding Microsoft’s anticompetitive practices contained a substantial cash payment to us and a series of technology agreements, Microsoft will continue to be an aggressive competitor with our traditional systems software business. We cannot be sure whether the portions of the settlement agreement designed to limit Microsoft’s ability to leverage its market power will be effective, and we cannot predict when, or if, we will experience increased demand for our system software products or if we will be able to apply the proceeds from the settlement agreement in a way that improves our operating results or shareholder return on an investment in our stock. A majority of the revenue that we generate in South Korea is dependent upon our relationship with SK Telecom, the largest wireless carrier in Korea; any deterioration of this relationship could materially harm our business. We offer our mobile entertainment services to consumers in South Korea through SK Telecom, the largest wireless carrier in South Korea. In the near term, we expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our total revenue through SK Telecom. If SK Telecom fails to market or distribute our applications or terminates its business contracts with us, or if our relationship with SK Telecom deteriorates in any significant way, we may be unable to replace the affected business arrangements with acceptable alternatives, which could have a material negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Also, if we are unable to 19 Table of Contents continue our service development in conjunction with SK Telecom, our ability to develop, test, and introduce new services will be materially harmed. Contracts with our carrier customers subject us to significant risks that could negatively impact our revenue or otherwise harm our operating results. We derive a material portion of our revenue from carrier application services. Many of our carrier application services contracts provide for revenue sharing arrangements but we have little control over the pricing decisions of our carrier customers. Furthermore, most of these contracts do not provide for guaranteed minimum payments or usage levels. Because most of our carrier customer contracts are nonexclusive, it is possible that our wireless carriers could purchase similar application services from third parties, and cease to use our services in the future. As a result, our revenue derived under these agreements could be substantially reduced depending on the pricing and usage decisions of our carrier customers. In addition, none of our carrier application services contracts obligates our carrier customers to market or distribute any of our applications. As a result, revenue related to our application services are, to a large extent, dependent upon the marketing and promotion activities of our carrier customers. The loss of carrier customers or a reduction in marketing or promotion of our applications would likely result in the loss of future revenues from our carrier application services. Many of our carrier contracts are short term and allow for early termination by the carrier with or without cause. These contracts are therefore subject to renegotiation of pricing or other key terms that could be adverse to our interests, and leave us vulnerable to non-renewal by the carriers. If our carrier contracts are terminated, not renewed, or renegotiated in a manner less favorable to us, our application services revenue would be negatively impacted. Finally, certain of our carrier contracts obligate us to indemnify the carrier customer for certain liabilities and losses incurred by them, including liabilities resulting from third party claims for damages that arise out of the use of our technology. These indemnification terms provide us with certain procedural safeguards, including the right to control the defense of the indemnified party. We have accepted tenders of indemnification from two of our carrier customers related to one pending patent infringement proceeding, and we are vigorously defending them. This pending proceeding or future claims against which we may be obligated to defend our carrier customers could result in paying amounts pursuant to these obligations that could materially harm our operating results. Our carrier customers could begin developing some or all of our carrier applications services on their own, which could result in the loss of future revenues. Most of our carrier customers do not offer internally-developed application services that compete with ours. If, however our carrier customers begin developing these application services internally, we could be forced to lower our prices or increase the amount of service we provide in order to maintain our business with those carrier customers. This could result in the loss of future revenues from our carrier application services or the reduction of margins related to such revenues. The mobile entertainment market is highly competitive. The market for mobile entertainment services, including ringback tone and music-on-demand solutions, is highly competitive. Current and potential future competitors include major media companies, Internet portal companies, content aggregators, wireless software providers and other pure-play wireless entertainment publishers. In connection with music-on-demand in particular, we may in the future compete with current providers of music-on-demand services for online or other non-mobile platforms, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, the major music labels may demand more aggressive revenue sharing arrangements or seek an alternative business model less favorable to us. Increased competition has in the past resulted in pricing pressure, forcing us to lower the selling price of our services. If we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could materially harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Our Helix open source initiative is subject to risks associated with open source technology. Although we have invested substantial resources in the development of the underlying technology within our Helix DNA Platform and the Helix Community process, the market and industry may not accept these technologies and, therefore, we may not derive royalty or support revenue from them. Moreover, the introduction of the Helix DNA Platform open source and community source licensing schemes may adversely affect sales of our commercial system software products to mobile operators, broadband providers, corporations, government agencies, educational institutions and other business and non-business organizations. Our patents may not improve our business prospects. Our primary strategy with regard to patents is to use our patent portfolio to increase licensing and usage of our Helix products. We do not know whether our patents will ultimately be deemed enforceable, valid, or infringed. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether our patent strategy will be successful or will improve our financial results. Moreover, we may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of our patents. Any such litigation could be costly and may not achieve the desired results. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, which may contribute to fluctuations in our stock price. As a result of the rapidly changing markets in which we compete, our operating results may fluctuate from period-to-period. In past periods, our operating results have been affected by personnel reductions and related charges, charges relating to losses on excess office facilities, and impairment charges for certain of our equity investments. Our operating results may be adversely affected by similar or other charges or events in future periods, including, but not limited to our inability to realize SAB No. 51 gains in future periods or impairments of goodwill and other long-lived assets, any of which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Certain of our expense decisions (for example, research and development and sales and marketing efforts) are based on predictions regarding business and the markets in which we compete. To the extent that these predictions prove inaccurate, our revenue may not be sufficient to offset these expenditures, and our operating results may be harmed. In addition, we recently acquired the operations of WiderThan. We have limited experience managing these assets which may make it more difficult for us to accurately predict our operating results. Our products and services must compete with the products and services of strong or dominant competitors. Our software and services must compete with strong existing competitors and new competitors that may enter with competitive new products, services and technologies. These market conditions have in the past resulted in, and could likely continue to result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, our operating results and the trading price of our stock: • reduced prices, revenue and margins; • increased expenses in responding to competitors; • loss of current and potential customers, market share and market power; • lengthened sales cycles; • degradation of our stature and reputation in the market; • changes in our business and distribution and marketing strategies; • changes to our products, services, technology, licenses and business practices, and other disruption of our operations; • strained relationships with partners; and • pressure to prematurely release products or product enhancements. 21 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater resources than we do. Our competitors across the breadth of our product lines include a number of large and powerful companies, such as Microsoft and Apple. Failure to develop and introduce new products and services that achieve market acceptance could result in a loss of market opportunities and negatively affect our operating results. The process of developing new, and enhancing existing, products and services is complex, costly and uncertain. Our business depends on providing products and services that are attractive to subscribers and consumers, which, in part, is subject to unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences and competing products and services. Any failure by us to timely respond to or accurately anticipate consumers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends could significantly harm our current market share or result in the loss of market opportunities. In addition, we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect consumer demand for our products and services. Therefore, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We are experiencing greater fluctuations in revenue due to seasonality than at any time in our past, and we expect this trend to continue. We are increasingly experiencing seasonality in our business, particularly with respect to the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our music, games and media software and services businesses, which include advertising revenue, make up a large percentage of our revenue, and the fourth quarter has traditionally been the seasonally strongest quarter for internet advertising. In addition, as we have begun partnering more closely with device manufacturers for our consumer music services, we expect sales of these devices to follow typical consumer buying patterns with a majority of consumer electronics being sold in the fourth quarter. Finally, WiderThan’s historical business has seen a concentration of system sales, deployments, and consulting revenue in the fourth quarter. These factors may result in increasing seasonality in our business and we cannot predict with accuracy how these factors will impact our quarterly financial results. We depend upon our executive officers and key personnel, but may be unable to attract and retain them, which could significantly harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees, particularly Robert Glaser, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Glaser or other key executive officers or employees could harm our business. Our success is also dependent upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled management, technical, and sales personnel, both in our domestic operations and as we expand internationally. Qualified individuals are in high demand and competition for such qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and we may incur significant costs to retain or attract them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the key personnel necessary to sustain our business or support future growth. Our industry is experiencing consolidation that may cause us to lose key relationships and intensify competition. The Internet and media distribution industries are undergoing substantial change, which has resulted in increasing consolidation and formation of strategic relationships. Acquisitions or other consolidating transactions could harm us in a number of ways, including the loss of customers if competitors or users of competing technologies consolidate with our current or potential customers, or our current competitors become stronger, or new competitors emerge from consolidations. Any of these events could put us at a competitive disadvantage, which could cause us to lose customers, revenue and market share. Consolidation in our industry, or in related industries such as broadband carriers, could force us to expend greater resources to meet new or additional competitive threats, which could also harm our operating results. 22 Table of Contents Industry consolidation could also cause the loss of strategic relationships if our strategic partners are acquired by or enter into relationships with a competitor. Because we rely on strategic relationships with third parties, including relationships providing for content acquisition and distribution of our products, the loss of current strategic relationships (due to industry consolidation or otherwise), the inability to find other strategic partners, our failure to effectively manage these relationships or the failure of our existing relationships to achieve meaningful positive results could harm our business. Acquisitions involve costs and risks that could harm our business and impair our ability to realize potential benefits from acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have acquired technologies and businesses in the past and expect that we will continue to do so in the future. The failure to adequately manage the costs and address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by acquisitions of technology and businesses could harm our business and prevent us from realizing the benefits of the acquisitions. Acquisition-related costs and financial risks related to completed and potential future acquisitions may harm our financial position, reported operating results, or stock price. Previous acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization of purchased technology and amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets, which are reflected in our operating expenses. New acquisitions and any potential future impairment of the value of purchased assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. Acquisitions also involve operational risks that could harm our existing operations or prevent realization of anticipated benefits from an acquisition. These operational risks include: • difficulties and expenses in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems, and/or personnel of the acquired company; • retaining key management or employees of the acquired company; • entrance into unfamiliar markets, industry segments, or types of businesses; • operating and integrating acquired businesses in remote locations; • integrating and managing businesses based in countries in which we have little or no prior experience; • diversion of management time and other resources from existing operations to integration activities for acquired businesses; • impairment of relationships with employees, affiliates, advertisers or content providers of our business or acquired business; and • assumption of known and unknown liabilities of the acquired company, including intellectual property claims. We need to develop relationships and technical standards with manufacturers of non-PC media and communication devices to grow our business. Access to the Internet through devices other than a PC, such as personal digital assistants, cellular phones, television set-top devices, game consoles, Internet appliances and portable music and games devices has increased dramatically and is expected to continue to increase. If a substantial number of alternative device manufacturers do not license and incorporate our technology and services into their devices, we may fail to capitalize on the opportunity to deliver digital media to non-PC devices which could harm our business prospects. If we do not successfully make our products and technologies compatible with emerging standards and the most popular devices used to access digital media, we may miss market opportunities and our business and results will suffer. 23 Table of Contents Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks fail, become unavailable, unsecured or perform poorly so that current or potential users do not have adequate access to our products, services and websites. Our ability to provide our products and services to our customers and operate our business depends on the continued operation of our information systems and networks. A significant or repeated reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our information systems and network infrastructure could harm our ability to conduct our business, and harm our reputation and ability to attract and retain users, customers, advertisers and content providers. We have on occasion experienced system errors and failures that caused interruption in availability of products or content or an increase in response time. Problems with our systems and networks could result from our failure to adequately maintain and enhance these systems and networks, natural disasters and similar events, power failures, HVAC failures, intentional actions to disrupt our systems and networks and many other causes. The vulnerability of a large portion of our computer and communications infrastructure is enhanced because much of it is located at a single leased facility in Seattle, Washington, an area that is at heightened risk of earthquake, flood, and volcanic events. Many of our services do not currently have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur from a system outage. Our network is subject to security risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Online commerce and communications depend on the ability to transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit and store such information and data securely, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could hurt customer demand for our products, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. We also may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to alleviate problems caused by such breaches or attacks, which expenditures could adversely effect our operating results. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. A key part of our strategy is to develop localized products and services in international markets through subsidiaries, branch offices and joint ventures. If we do not successfully implement this strategy, we may not recoup our international investments and we may fail to develop or maintain worldwide market share. In addition, our recent acquisitions of Exomi, SNS, WiderThan, Zylom and Mr. Goodliving have increased our revenue from, and business exposure to, our international operations. Our international operations involve risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language, and cultural differences, different or conflicting laws and regulations, taxes, and exchange rate fluctuations. Any of these factors could harm operating results and financial condition. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights and may face risks associated with third-party claims relating to our intellectual property. Our ability to compete partly depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. However, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not assure our ownership rights in our intellectual property, protect or enhance the competitive position of our products and services or effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. As disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution, and online businesses are common and likely to arise in the future, 24 Table of Contents we may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights, enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms or redesign our product features and services. Any such dispute would likely be costly and distract our management, and the outcome of any such dispute could harm our business. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our technology may infringe the third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. Currently we are investigating or litigating a variety of such pending claims, some of which are described in Item 3 of this report under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with the data collection capabilities of our products and services. Many of our products are interactive Internet applications that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information to our servers. Many of the services we provide also require that a user provide certain information to us. We have an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy and existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation, and harm our business. We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. Currently we do not collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology, or provision of services in states and countries other than those in which we have offices or employees. Our business would be harmed if one or more states or any foreign country were to require us to collect sales or other taxes from past sales or income related to products, licenses of technology, or provision of services. Effective July 1, 2003, we began collecting Value Added Tax, or VAT, on sales of “electronically supplied services” provided to European Union residents, including software products, games, data, publications, music, video and fee-based broadcasting services. There can be no assurance that the European Union will not make further modifications to the VAT collection scheme, the effects of which could require significant enhancements to our systems and increase the cost of selling our products and services into the European Union. The collection and remittance of VAT subjects us to additional currency fluctuation risks. The Internet Tax Freedom Act, or ITFA, which Congress extended until November 2014, among other things, imposed a moratorium on discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. We may be subject to additional income tax assessments. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, income taxes payable, and net deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in our historical financial statements. An audit or litigation can result in significant additional income taxes payable in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We donate a portion of our net income to charity. In periods where we achieve profitability, we intend to donate 5% of our annual net income to charitable organizations, which would reduce our net income for those periods. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately one third of our stock, which gives them significant control over certain major decisions on which our shareholders may vote, may discourage an acquisition of us, and any significant sales of stock by our officers and directors could have a negative effect on our stock price. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own more than one third of our common stock. Robert Glaser, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns the majority of that stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: • elect or defeat the election of our directors; • amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; • effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • control the outcome of any other matter submitted to the shareholders for vote. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of RealNetworks, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Provisions of our charter documents, Shareholder Rights Plan, and Washington law could discourage our acquisition by a third-party. Our articles of incorporation provide for a strategic transaction committee of the board of directors. Without the prior approval of this committee, and subject to certain limited exceptions, the board of directors does not have the authority to: • adopt a plan of merger; • authorize the sale, lease, exchange or mortgage of assets representing more than 50% of the book value of our assets prior to the transaction or on which our long-term business strategy is substantially dependent; • authorize our voluntary dissolution; or • take any action that has the effect of any of the above. RealNetworks has also entered into an agreement providing Mr. Glaser with certain contractual rights relating to the enforcement of our charter documents and Mr. Glaser’s roles and authority within RealNetworks. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan that provides that shares of our common stock have associated preferred stock purchase rights. The exercise of these rights would make the acquisition of RealNetworks by a third-party more expensive to that party and has the effect of discouraging third parties from acquiring RealNetworks without the approval of our board of directors, which has the power to redeem these rights and prevent their exercise. Washington law imposes restrictions on some transactions between a corporation and certain significant shareholders. The foregoing provisions of our charter documents, shareholder rights plan, our agreement with Mr. Glaser, our zero coupon convertible subordinated notes and Washington law, as well as our charter provisions that provide for a classified board of directors and the availability of “blank check” preferred stock, could have the effect of making it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third-party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions may therefore have the effect of limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock ranged from $5.45 to $11.17 per share. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated variations in 26 Table of Contents quarterly operating results, changes in financial estimates, recommendations by securities analysts, changes in the competitive environment, as well as any of the other risk factors described above. Financial forecasting of our operating results will be difficult because of the changing nature of our products and business, and our actual results may differ from forecasts. As a result of the dynamic markets in which we compete, it is difficult to accurately forecast our operating results and metrics. Our inability or the inability of the financial community to accurately forecast our operating results could result in our reported net income (loss) in a given quarter to differ from expectations, which could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 