Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause Midas’ actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: The Company relies on franchising for a substantial portion of its operating revenues Midas relies on franchising for a substantial portion of its operating revenues. Therefore, Midas’ business is dependent on the ability of its franchisees to deliver high quality services. Midas franchisees are independent contractors and are not Midas employees. The Company provides training and support to its franchisees, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond Midas’ control. Midas has been introducing a new business model, which requires Midas franchisees to perform more technologically complex repairs and maintenance than historically has been the case, and which requires greater investment in personnel and equipment. Consequently, not all Midas franchisees may successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with Midas’ standards and requirements or hire and train qualified managers, technicians and other store personnel. If they do not, Midas’ image and reputation may suffer, and system-wide sales and profitability could decline. Midas is subject to franchising regulations Midas is subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, sale and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor—franchisee relationship. The Company’s failure to comply with these laws could subject it to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, Midas may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of shops, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of agreements. There can be no assurance that compliance problems will not be encountered from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, the Company’s failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Virtually all of Midas’ revenues outside of North America are derived from one customer Virtually all of Midas’ revenues outside of North America are derived from Midas’ master licensee in Europe and South America (previously Fiat Group S.p.A. and now Norauto Group S.A. of France). Licensing fees from this master licensee accounted for approximately 4.5% of consolidated net revenue during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2005. The loss of these licensing fees due to an adverse change in Midas’ relationship with Norauto or in Norauto’s business would have a material adverse effect on Midas’ business. 15 Table of Contents Midas is in the process of changing its business model Midas is in the process of repositioning from a business model focused on the servicing and replacement of mufflers, brakes, shock absorbers and struts to a model that encompasses a complete line of services, including climate control, electrical, chassis and maintenance services. As a result of the change in business model, company-operated and franchised shops have had to make, and will have to continue to make, investments in training, new personnel and equipment. As a result of the inability of certain franchisees to adapt to the changing environment and successfully adopt the new business model, the Company has in some cases reacquired franchises to prevent the closing of these shops. While the Company believes that the selective acquisition of certain franchises is consistent with the implementation of its business model, the long term success of the Company depends upon the ability of the Company’s franchisees to profitably implement the new business model. While same-store sales have been maintained or improved at shops that have made the transition to the new business model, there can be no assurance that the change in the long run will be successfully marketed, that consumers will accept the new model or that the remaining shops will be willing to or can successfully make the transition to the new format. Midas depends on supply chain alliances to distribute products to its franchisees and on the royalty payments from these suppliers During fiscal 2003, Midas entered into long-term supply arrangements with AutoZone and Uni-Select to distribute genuine Midas products and other replacement auto parts to its franchisees throughout North America. In addition, the Company expanded its supply chain alliances in the United States in fiscal 2004 to include NAPA and CarQuest. Midas depends on these companies to reliably distribute automotive parts to Midas shops on a timely basis. Failure on the part of these companies, particularly AutoZone, to execute their distribution obligations to the satisfaction of Midas dealers could lead to a disruption in Midas franchisees’ operations, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s franchise revenues. A reduction in purchases by Midas dealers of the products distributed by these companies would also result in lower product royalty revenue for the Company, which the Company depends on to offset the costs of its Midas’ lifetime guarantee. Midas may not successfully dispose of its exhaust manufacturing and distribution operations In October 2004, the Company announced its intention to sell its exhaust manufacturing and distribution operations because it believes that exhaust manufacturing no longer represents a strategic fit for its evolving retail-focused business model. There can be no assurances that Midas will be able to successfully complete the sale of its exhaust manufacturing and distribution operations on terms favorable to the Company or its dealers. Nor can there be any assurance that a sale could be completed in a timely manner. The Company lost money in its exhaust manufacturing and distribution operations in fiscal 2004 and failure to complete the sale of these operations on a timely basis will have an adverse impact on the operating income of the Company in fiscal 2005. If Midas is unable to dispose of this business on terms that include a favorable long-term supply arrangement to ensure that Midas shops have access to competitively priced, high-quality exhaust products and provide for the long-standing Midas lifetime warranty on mufflers, Midas’ franchise revenue could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, even if the sale is completed, the transition process upon the sale of these operations could materially affect the operating earnings of the Company and could result in the disruption of exhaust supplies to Midas dealers, thereby adversely impacting their financial and operating performance. Midas operates in highly competitive markets The automotive services industry is highly fragmented and highly competitive. Direct competitors exist for Midas’ retail auto service shops and the Company’s exhaust manufacturing and distribution business. Midas shops compete with national, regional and local specialty chains, both franchised and company-owned, car dealerships, independent repair shops and service bays of mass merchandisers. The Company believes the principal competitive factors in the markets served by Midas shops are, in no particular order, 16 Table of Contents customer service and reputation, shop location, name awareness, and price. Midas also competes with businesses of the types noted above and with other parties in the sale of franchises. Competitive factors include startup costs, royalty rates, franchisee support and the financial performance of existing franchises. Midas’ exhaust manufacturing and distribution business competes with a number of manufacturers and distributors of automotive parts and equipment, including ArvinMeritor, Tenneco Automotive, Goerlich and IMCO. Many of the Company’s competitors are large and have a substantially longer operating history than Midas. Many competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that Midas or individual Midas shops will be able to compete effectively. Advances in automotive technology could adversely affect the business The demand for the services offered by Midas shops could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology. Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals. For example, some manufacturers now recommend that consumers change oil at 10,000 mile intervals and replace spark plugs and other engine components at 100,000 miles, a significant increase from the mileage intervals recommended for earlier models and those currently recommended by most manufacturers. In addition, the improvement in original equipment manufacturers’ parts quality has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for Midas products, adversely affecting Midas sales. Improvement in the quality of parts manufactured may extend the useful lives and warranties of those parts and may reduce demand for Midas products and services by decreasing the frequency of replacement or refurbishment of those parts. In turn, longer and more comprehensive warranty programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for Midas services. The Company believes that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by a dealer during the period the car is under warranty. In addition, advances in automotive technology continue to require Midas to incur additional costs to update its technical training program and upgrade the diagnostic capabilities of Midas shops. Midas is subject to cycles in the general economy A downturn in the economy may delay or reduce consumer purchases of Midas products and services, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending on automotive services, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, gasoline prices, the availability of consumer credit and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of regular service interval maintenance generally are reduced during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. Midas is subject to a decline in the usage of automobiles While the number of automobiles registered in the U.S. has steadily increased, a reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners could adversely affect the demand for Midas products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases, the number of miles driven by automobile owners typically decreases, which historically has resulted in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs. The automotive repair industry is subject to consumer protection regulation National automotive repair chains have been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states. Publicity in connection with such investigations can have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of a company. In addition to such investigations, state and local governments have enacted numerous consumer protection laws. 17 Table of Contents Midas is subject to seasonality in its results of operations Midas’ business is seasonal in nature. The Company has historically experienced lower revenues during the first and fourth quarters. In particular, severe weather in winter months may make it difficult for consumers in affected parts of the country to travel to Midas shops to obtain services. Midas depends on its suppliers Midas depends upon close relationships with suppliers of certain automotive parts, equipment and raw materials and its ability to purchase products at prices and on terms comparable to similarly situated companies. Midas’ ability to purchase at comparable prices and terms is the result of its volume of purchases from these suppliers. Although Midas maintains supply contracts with its suppliers, the Company believes alternative sources exist for most of the products that it distributes. The loss of any one supplier is not expected to have a material adverse effect. However, if a new supplier is not obtained in a timely manner and upon acceptable terms, the Company’s operations may be adversely affected. Midas must commit resources to maintain and develop its brand If Midas fails to continue maintaining and developing the Midas brand name, future revenues could be adversely affected. The Company believes that maintaining and developing the Midas brand name is critical to its success and that the importance of brand recognition may increase as competitors offer products and services similar to Midas’ products and services. Midas incurs substantial marketing expenditures to create and maintain brand loyalty as well as increase awareness of its brand. If Midas’ brand-building strategy is unsuccessful, these expenses may never be recovered, and Midas may be unable to increase its future revenues or implement its business strategy. Failure to protect Midas’ intellectual property could reduce its competitiveness Midas relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright law to protect its intellectual property, including the Midas brand name. Midas cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, the laws of some of the foreign countries in which Midas’ products and services are or may be sold do not protect the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Midas’ failure to protect its proprietary information, and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against Midas, could make Midas less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Inability to respond to consumer demands could adversely affect Company performance An inability to respond to changes in consumer demands in a timely manner could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, and a failure to make continuous and successful new product and service introductions could result in declines in financial performance. Midas’ success in general, and at Midas shops in particular, depends on its ability to identify, originate and define automotive product and service trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Midas’ automotive products and services must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Midas cannot assure that it will be able to continue to develop appealing automotive products and services or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If Midas misjudges the market for its products and services, the Company may be faced with significant excess inventories and sunk training and equipment costs for certain automotive products and services and missed opportunities for other products and services. Midas is subject to extensive environmental regulation Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Midas operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations 18 Table of Contents relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Such laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Some of the Company’s current and former properties have been used as gas stations and dry cleaners. Accordingly, Midas could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require Midas to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce earnings and cash available for operations. Midas relies on an adequate supply of skilled labor The provision of high quality services by Midas shops requires an adequate supply of skilled labor. In addition, the operating costs and operating revenues of such shops may be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled technicians. Trained and experienced automotive technicians are in high demand. In addition, the expansion of the Midas business model from muffler and brake service to more complicated automotive repairs has required many franchised and company-operated shops to hire highly skilled full service automobile technicians. Accordingly, a shop’s ability to increase productivity and revenues could be affected by its inability to attract and maintain the employment of skilled technicians necessary to provide the shop’s services. There can be no assurance that Midas or its franchisees will be able to attract and maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate these shops efficiently, or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled technicians, thereby adversely impacting the Company’s financial performance. Midas is a leveraged company that utilizes debt to fund its business The Company currently has substantial debt on its balance sheet. The financing provided to the Company is subject to covenants that require Midas to maintain a certain net worth and maintain compliance with certain leverage ratios. If Midas does not perform in accordance with these covenants, the institutions providing the funds have the option to withdraw their funding support. There can be no assurances that Midas will remain in compliance with its debt covenants in the future. In addition, Midas’ current financing agreement expires on March 16, 2007. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to refinance its existing credit facilities when they expire in fiscal 2007. Midas’ performance may be affected by acts of war or terrorism War or terrorist activities or the threat of them may increase the cost of doing business or otherwise impact Midas’ financial performance. 