Risk Factors MPW faces the competitive pressures of a highly fragmented industry. The industrial services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Companies compete on the basis of the quality of services provided, responsiveness to customers, ability to provide services, range of services offered and price. One or more of the larger national or regional industrial services companies, as well as numerous local industrial services companies of varying sizes and resources, serve each of the geographic markets in which we compete or will likely compete. The larger industrial services companies may have significantly greater financial and other resources than MPW. In addition, many smaller industrial services companies exist or are formed to serve only one or relatively few customers. From time to time, these or other competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or protect existing business. These practices may either require us to reduce the pricing of services or lose business. We expect that competition will remain high or increase in the future, and we cannot be certain that we will continue to compete successfully. Our business may be adversely affected if customers reduce their outsourcing or use preferred vendors. Our business and growth strategies depend in large part on the continuation of our customers outsourcing industrial services. The decision to outsource depends upon customer perceptions that outsourcing may provide higher quality services at a lower overall cost and permit customers to focus on core business activities. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or that customers that have outsourced functions will not decide to perform these functions themselves. In addition, labor unions representing employees of some of our current and prospective customers have generally opposed the outsourcing trend and sought to direct to union employees the performance of the types of services we offer. In addition, management has identified a trend among some customers toward the retention of a limited number of preferred vendors to provide all or a large part of their required facility services. We cannot be certain that this trend will continue or not be reversed or, if it does continue, that we will be selected and retained as a preferred vendor to provide these services. Adverse developments with respect to either of these trends would have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business would be adversely affected if key customers are lost. In fiscal 2006, our ten largest customers represented approximately 41% of total revenues. Customers may terminate or modify substantially all arrangements to perform services for them at will and without penalty. The loss of, and failure to replace the revenues from, one or more large customers or the loss of a significant number of customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The business cycles of our customers could adversely affect revenues. Many significant customers of MPW operate in industries, such as the automotive, steel, manufacturing, pulp and paper and utility industries, which are subject to work stoppages and slowdowns and have historically shown sensitivity to recessions and other adverse conditions in the general economy. A general or regional economic downturn, a work stoppage at one of our significant customers or a decline in the creditworthiness of one of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain an adequate workforce. Our business is labor intensive and could be adversely affected if MPW fails to maintain an adequate workforce. A large majority of the workforce is comprised of hourly workers. MPW incurs substantial expenses for recruiting and training new personnel. We have historically experienced a high level of turnover, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract and retain employees. As a result of a shortage in the supply of hourly workers, we may not be able to maintain a labor force adequate to operate efficiently, labor expenses may increase or we may have to curtail our growth strategy. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully manage acquisitions. We cannot be sure that we can add new businesses to our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks that could materially and adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, these risks include a failure to maintain customer relationships and the diversion of management’s attention from operational matters. MPW also could be affected by the inability to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems at one of the acquired businesses could materially and adversely affect the reputation of the entire company. A failure to retain senior management could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is largely dependent upon the efforts of the members of the senior management team, particularly Monte R. Black, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President. If this executive officer or other officers of MPW do not continue in their present positions, or if a material number of other managers fail to continue with us, the business could be adversely affected. Environmental risks could adversely affect our business. Although we attempt not to take responsibility for, nor transport or dispose of, hazardous materials generated by customers in the normal course of business, MPW does provide support to customers for the management of their hazardous materials. This support includes some on-site movement and packaging of customers’ hazardous materials and logistical support for customers’ transportation and disposal of hazardous materials. In addition, some of our more specialized cleaning procedures may require employees to work near hazardous materials. In performing these services, we could potentially be liable to third parties or their employees for various claims for property damage or personal injury stemming from a release of hazardous substances or otherwise. Personal injury claims could arise contemporaneously with performance of the work or long after completion of the project as a result of alleged exposure to toxic substances. A large number of these claims or one or more claims that results in a significant liability to MPW could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. MPW may be adversely affected if it expands international operations. MPW generates a small portion of revenues from services provided outside of the United States. We may increase our presence outside of the United States. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, including longer payment cycles, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. 