ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY VARIOUS RISKS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE PRINCIPAL RISKS NOTED BELOW. RISKS CONCERNING OUR BUSINESS OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH DUKE ENERGY IS MATERIAL TO OUR SUCCESS, AND THE TERMINATION OF SUCH RELATIONSHIP FOR ANY REASON WILL ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND PROSPECTS. Our immediate business opportunities continue to be largely dependent on the success of our deployments, and the future decisions of Duke Energy relating to smart grid system architecture, and the Ambient fourth generation Node. We are focusing much of our time, attention and resources on the rollout of the equipment and software delivered to Duke Energy. The success of our endeavors with respect to the deployment is subject to several risks. These risks include our dependence on third parties to deliver and support reliable components to manufacture and assemble our end products, and our dependence on our engineering team to continue to advance our software products. If we are unable to effectively manage and maintain our relationship with Duke Energy, our business could be materially and adversely affected in its ability to continue, and our operations could be jeopardized. We will need to secure additional firm purchase orders from Duke Energy or enter into additional contracts with other utilities to be able to continue our operations in the future, and there is no assurance that other utilities will adopt our smart grid technology or contract with us to provide our services to them. Further, no assurance can be provided that Duke Energy will purchase or deploy our new generation nodes that are currently under development. 8 WE CURRENTLY DEPEND ON ONE KEY CUSTOMER FOR All OUR REVENUE, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT SHORTFALL IN ORDERS FROM, THIS KEY CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR REVENUE. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, 100% of our revenue was from Duke Energy. Our inability to generate additional anticipated revenue from our key customer, or a significant shortfall in sales will likely significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. Our operating results in the foreseeable future continue to depend on our ability to further our deployments with our existing customer, and our ability to affect deployments with our existing utility. THE PACE AND PROGRESS OF FEDERAL INITIATIVES IN THE SMART GRID AREA, MAY AFFECT PURCHASING DECISION BY UTILITIES AND THEREBY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. The promise of funding from the federal government, provided by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act, minimized much of the risk associated with adoption of new technology and encouraged utilities considering smart grid deployments to actively develop deployment plans. While the intent of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act was to boost the fledgling industry, in 2009, the lack of available federal funds unexpectedly resulted in a slowing of anticipated deployments while the Department of Energy transformed the ARRA mandates into workable programs. Accordingly, any further significant delay in utilities reaching agreement with the terms of the grant awards may affect utilities' decision process as it relates to the timing of deployment of smart grid technologies. All of these factors could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. WE HAVE CONTRACTED WITH ONE SUPPLIER TO MANUFACTURE OUR NODES In both 2009 and 2008, we used one contract manufacturer to produce our nodes. Should our relationship with the manufacturer deteriorate or terminate or should this supplier lose some or all of its access to the products or components that comprise all or part of the nodes that we purchase from it our performance could be adversely affected. Under such circumstances, we would be required to seek alternative sources of supply for these products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such products from alternative sources on the same terms. A failure to obtain such products on as favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our revenue and/or gross margin. FUTURE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS IN THE U.S. AND GLOBAL MARKETS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION THAT WE CURRENTLY CANNOT PREDICT. The U.S. and other global world economies are slowly recovering from a recession that began in 2008 and extended into 2009. Although economic growth has resumed, it remains modest and the timing of an economic recovery is uncertain. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in recent years. Unemployment rates remain high and businesses and consumer confidence levels have not yet fully recovered to pre-recession levels. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, slower adoption of new technologies and increase price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial conditions. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDS WHEN NEEDED, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXPAND EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEPLOYMENTS. Management believes that we will be able to meet our operating requirements for the balance of 2010. This is based on the value of our currently available cash resources, the committed equity based financing arrangement discussed in Note 9 to our financial statements, and anticipated revenues. However, we may need to raise funds in order to expand existing commercial deployments and otherwise grow our operations to meet the demands associated with any additional significant purchase orders. There are no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining additional required capital if or when needed. 9 OTHERS MAY CHALLENGE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION Our portfolio includes twenty-three patents issued or allowed by the USPTO primarily relating to coupling technology, and we have several pending patent applications in the United States and in other jurisdictions. We have filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO"), and with the appropriate agencies in foreign countries and other jurisdictions, patent applications with respect to various aspects and applications of our smart grid technology including the Energy Sensing portion of Ambient Smart Grid®. Although we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that our rights relating to Ambient’s Smart Grid™ solution may be challenged and invalidated or circumvented. Further, effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer, or otherwise use aspects of processes and devices that we may regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary information is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technologies. In the event that our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the market for technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OTHER COMPANIES MAY DEVELOP AND SELL COMPETING PRODUCTS THAT MAY REDUCE THE SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS OR RENDER OUR PRODUCTS OBSOLETE. The smart grid communications marketplace is rapidly evolving and therefore has rapidly changing technological, regulatory and consumer requirements. We will need to continue to maintain and improve our competitive position to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers, and continue to develop and introduce new products, features and services in a timely and efficient manner. Our competitors include both small companies and some of the largest companies in the electronics industry, operating either alone or together with trade associations and partners. There can be no assurance that other companies will not develop products that compete with our products in the future. Some of our potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than our Company. These potential competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers and exert more influence on the sales channel than we do. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with these potential competitors, and these potential competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than those we are developing or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES, AND WE EXPECT THESE LOSSES TO CONTINUE INTO 2010. We are a company engaged in the design, development and marketing of our smart grid communication technology and solutions. We incurred net losses of $14,246,284 and $11,294,199 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect to continue to incur net losses as we further develop, test, and market Ambient Smart Grid® technology. Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon the factors discussed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section. There are no assurances that we will achieve or sustain profitability, or that our operating losses will not increase in the future. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SATISFY THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT, OR OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING IS NOT EFFECTIVE, THE RELIABILITY OF OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY BE QUESTIONED AND OUR SHARE PRICE MAY SUFFER. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting. Our independent auditors will be required to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. It is possible that we could discover certain deficiencies in the design and/or operation of our internal controls that could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. We have invested and will continue to invest significant resources in this process. We are uncertain as to what impact a conclusion that deficiencies exist in our internal control over financial reporting would have on the trading price of our common stock. 10 RISKS CONCERNING OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE VICIS CAPITAL MASTER FUND OWNS A MAJORITY OF AMBIENT’S ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK AND WILL THUS BE ABLE TO CONTROL THE OUTCOME OF ALL ISSUES SUBMITTED TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Vicis holds, as of March 31, 2010, approximately 83.6% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, Vicis is able to control the outcome of all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger or a going private transaction. A principal of Vicis also is a member of our board of directors. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK OR OTHER DILUTIVE EVENTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT PREVAILING MARKET PRICES FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. As of March 31, 2010, we were authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 1,582,075,354 shares were outstanding. As of March 31, 2010, an additional 227,732,931 shares of common stock were reserved for the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase common stock and the reservations of shares in the various stock option plans. Many of the above options and warrants contain provisions that require the issuance of increased numbers of shares of common stock in the event of stock splits, redemptions, mergers and other transactions. The occurrence of any such event or the exercise of any of these options or warrants would dilute the interest in our company represented by each share of common stock and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority, without further action or vote of our stockholders, to issue authorized shares of our common stock that are not reserved for issuance. In addition, in order to raise the amount of capital that we need at the current market price of our common stock, we may need to issue a significant number of shares of common stock (or securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant number of shares of our common stock). Any of these issuances will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our current stockholders, which will have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value and market value of our common stock. Our stockholders may incur additional dilution upon the exercise of currently outstanding or subsequently granted options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock will likely fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · Announcements by us of commencement of, changes to, or cancellation of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results by securities analysts or investors; · Variations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including but not limited to those identified in this "RISK FACTORS" section; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Future sales of our common stock; · Stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our stock; · Commencement of or involvement in litigation; and/or · Announcements by us, or by our competitors of technological innovations or new products. In addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities issued by high technology companies. This volatility often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS ARE APPLICABLE TO INVESTMENT IN SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current prices and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities are provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to penny stock rules. Many brokers will not deal with penny stocks, restricting the market for our shares of common stock. BECAUSE WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY ANY CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK, OUR STOCKHOLDERS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE A RETURN ON THEIR SHARES UNLESS THEY SELL THEM. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 