Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may affect our future financial performance and our stock price. Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance or stock price are discussed below. We could realize losses and suffer liquidity problems due to declines in sales prices for bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce. Our profitability depends largely upon our profit margins and sales volumes of bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, banana sales accounted for the most significant portion of our total net sales, and historically pineapple sales have accounted for the most significant portion of our total gross profit. Supplies of bananas can be increased relatively quickly due to the banana’s relatively short growing cycle and the limited capital investment required for banana growing. As a result of imbalances in supply and demand and import regulations, banana prices fluctuate; consequently, our operating results could be adversely affected. Sales prices for bananas, pineapples and other fresh produce are difficult to predict. It is possible that sales prices for bananas and pineapples will decline in the future, and sales prices for other fresh produce may also decline. In recent years, there has been increasing consolidation among food retailers, wholesalers and distributors. We believe the increasing consolidation among food retailers may contribute to further downward pressure on our sales prices. In the event of a decline in sales prices or sales volumes, we could realize significant losses, experience liquidity problems and suffer a weakening in our financial condition. A significant portion of our costs is fixed, so that fluctuations in the sales prices have an immediate impact on our profitability. Our profitability is also affected by our production costs, which may increase due to factors beyond our control. 14 Due to fluctuations in the supply of and demand for fresh produce, our results of operations are seasonal, and we realize a greater portion of our net sales and gross profit during the first two quarters of each year. In part as a result of seasonal sales price fluctuations, we have historically realized a greater portion of our gross profit during the first two quarters of each year. The sales price of any fresh produce item fluctuates throughout the year due to the supply of and demand for that particular item, as well as the pricing and availability of other fresh produce items, many of which are seasonal in nature. For example, the production of bananas is continuous throughout the year and production is usually higher in the second half of the year, but the demand for bananas during that period varies because of the availability of seasonal and alternative fruit. As a result, demand for bananas is seasonal and generally results in higher sales prices during the first six months of each calendar year. In the melon market, the entry of many grow ers selling unbranded or regionally branded melons during the peak North American and European melon growing season results in greater supply, and therefore, lower sales prices from June to October. In North American and European regions, we realize most of our sales and gross profit for melons, grapes and non-tropical fruit from October to May. In the prepared food business, we historically realize the largest portion of our net sales and gross profit in the third and fourth quarters of the year. Crop disease, severe weather, natural disasters and other conditions affecting the environment, including the effects of climate change, could result in substantial losses and weaken our financial condition. Crop disease, severe weather conditions, such as floods, droughts, windstorms and hurricanes, and natural disasters, such as earthquakes, may adversely affect our supply of one or more fresh produce items, reduce our sales volumes, increase our unit production costs or prevent or impair our ability to ship products as planned. This is particularly true in the case of our premium pineapple product, the Del Monte Gold ® Extra Sweet pineapple, because a substantial portion of our production is grown in one region in Costa Rica. Since a significant portion of our costs are fixed and contracted in advance of each operating year, volume declines due to production interruptions or other factors could result in increases in unit production costs, which could result in substantial l osses and weaken our financial condition. We have experienced crop disease, insect infestation, severe weather and other adverse environmental conditions from time to time, including hurricanes, droughts, floods and earthquakes in our sourcing locations. Severe weather conditions may occur with higher frequency or may be less predictable in the future due to the effects of climate change. When crop disease, insect infestations, severe weather, earthquakes and other adverse environmental conditions destroy crops planted on our farms or our suppliers’ farms or prevent us from exporting them on a timely basis, we may lose our investment in those crops or our purchased fruit cost may increase. In 2010, we experienced crop disease in an isolated area of our Philippines banana operation and as a result incurred $12.7 million in asset impairments, and we experienced significant flooding in our Guatemala banana operations which resulted in $5.7 million in asset impairments, cle an-up costs and inventory write-offs. We also incurred an additional $2.2 million in inventory write-off and asset impairments as a result of an earthquake in Chile. The fresh produce and prepared food markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The fresh produce and prepared food business is highly competitive, and the effect of competition is intensified because most of our products are perishable. In banana and pineapple markets, we compete principally with a limited number of multinational and large regional producers. In the case of our other fresh fruit and vegetable products, we compete with numerous small producers, as well as regional competitors. Our sales are also affected by the availability of seasonal and alternative fresh produce. The extent of competition varies by product. To compete successfully, we must be able to strategically source fresh produce and prepared food of uniformly high quality and sell and distribute it on a timely and regular basis. In addition, our profitability has depended significantly on our gross profit on the sale of our Del Monte Gold ® Extra Sweet pineapples. Increased competition in the production and sale of Del Monte Gold ® Extra Sweet pineapples has adversely affected our results. We expect these competitive pressures to continue. We are subject to material currency exchange risks because our operations involve transactions denominated in various currencies. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies, and our results of operations, as expressed in dollars, may be significantly affected by fluctuations in rates of exchange between currencies. Although a substantial portion of our net sales (42% in 2010) are denominated in non-dollar currencies, we incur a significant portion of our costs in dollars. Although we periodically enter into currency forward contracts as a hedge against currency exposures, we may not enter into these contracts during any particular period or these contracts may not adequately offset currency fluctuations. We generally are unable to adjust our non-dollar local currency sales prices to compensate for fluctuations in the exchange rate of the dollar against the relevant local currency. In addition, t here is normally a time lag between our incurrence of costs and collection of the related sales proceeds. Accordingly, if the dollar appreciates relative to the currencies in which we receive sales proceeds, our operating results may be negatively affected. Our costs are also affected by fluctuations in the value, relative to the U.S. dollar, of the currencies of countries in which we have significant production operations, with a weaker dollar resulting in increased production costs. 15 Our strategy of diversifying our product line, expanding into new geographic markets and increasing the value-added services that we provide to our customers may not be successful. We are diversifying our product line through acquisitions and internal growth. In addition, we have expanded our service offerings to include a higher proportion of value-added services, such as the preparation of fresh-cut produce, ripening, customized sorting and packing, direct-to-store delivery and in-store merchandising and promotional support. This represents a significant departure from our traditional business of delivering our products to our customers at the port. In recent periods, we have made significant investments in distribution centers, fresh-cut and prepared food facilities through capital expenditures and acquisitions and have expanded our business into new geographic markets. We may not be successful in anticipating the demand for these products and services, in establishing the requisite infrastructure to meet cus tomer demands or the provision of these value-added services. During recent years, we incurred significant asset impairment and other charges as a result of our continuing efforts to align our diversified product lines to market demand. During 2010, as a result of lower than expected sales volume and pricing, we incurred a $1.4 million impairment charge with respect to the DEL MONTE® perpetual, royalty-free brand name license for beverage products in the United Kingdom. If we are unable to recover from current challenging economic conditions in Europe, specifically in the United Kingdom, the prepared food goodwill and trademark may be at risk for impairment in the future. If we are not successful in our diversification efforts, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be further materially and adversely affected. Increased prices for fuel, packaging materials or short-term refrigerated vessel charter rates could increase our costs significantly. Our costs are determined in large part by the prices of fuel and packaging materials, including containerboard, plastic, resin and tin plate. We may be adversely affected if sufficient quantities of these materials are not available to us. Any significant increase in the cost of these items could also materially and adversely affect our operating results. Other than the cost of our products (including packaging), sea and inland transportation costs represent the largest component of cost of products sold. During 2008, the cost of fuel increased by 42% and containerboard increased by 11%. During 2008, we also experienced a significant amount of cost increases on our products due to higher fertilizer and other raw material prices. During 2009, cost of fuel decreased by 32% and containerboard decreased 24% as compared with 2008. During 2010, cost of fuel increased by 25% and containerboard increased by 7% as compared with 2009. In addition, we are subject to the volatility of the charter vessel market because 14 of our refrigerated vessels are chartered rather than owned. These charters are for periods of three to 10 years. Charter rates have generally increased during 2008 as compared with the prior year, but did not experience any further increase during 2009 and 2010. As a re sult, significant increases in fuel, packaging material and charter rates would materially and adversely affect our results. Compliance with regulation aimed at mitigating the effects of climate change, as discussed elsewhere in these Risk Factors, could also increase the cost of fuel for our shipping and logistics operations. We may be unable to pass along any cost increases in our product pricing. Even if we can pass on cost increases, significant changes in product pricing could also change consumer buying patterns, including a greater reliance on local production rather than imports. We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims. The sales of our products involve the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized personnel, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, or residues introduced during the growing, packing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, including internal product safety policies, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caus ed illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our brand image. In addition, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe is adequate. However, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, resulting in significant cash outlays that would materially and adversely affect our results and financial condition. 16 We are subject to legal and environmental risks that could result in significant cash outlays. We are involved in several legal and environmental matters that, if not resolved in our favor, could require significant cash outlays and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims if personal injury results from the consumption of any of our products. In addition, although the fresh-cut produce market is not currently subject to any specific governmental regulations, we cannot predict whether or when any regulation will be implemented or the scope of any possible regulation. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has placed a certain site at our former plantation in Oahu, Hawaii on the National Priorities List under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. Under an order entered into with the EPA, we completed a remedial investigation and engaged in a feasibility study to determine the extent of the environmental contamination. The remedial investigation report was finalized on January 21, 1999 and approved by the EPA in February 1999. A final draft feasibility study was submitted for EPA review in December 1999 and updated in December 2001 and October 2002, and approved by the EPA on April 22, 2003. On September 25, 2003, the EPA issued the Record of Decision (“ROD”). The EPA estimates in the ROD that the remedi ation costs associated with the cleanup of our plantation will range from $12.9 million to $25.4 million. Certain portions of the EPA’s estimates have been discounted using a 5% interest rate. The undiscounted estimates are between $14.8 million to $28.7 million. As of December 31, 2010, there is $18.6 million included in other noncurrent liabilities and $0.5 included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheets relating to the Kunia well site clean-up. We expect to expend approximately $0.5 million per year on this matter for the next five years. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “ Litigation ” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In addition, we are involved in several actions in U.S. and non-U.S. courts involving allegations by numerous Central American and Philippine plaintiffs that they were injured by exposure to a nematocide containing the chemical Dibromochloropropane (“DBCP”) during the 1970’s. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 19, “Litigation” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Environmental and other regulation of our business, including potential climate change regulation, could adversely impact us by increasing our production cost or restricting our ability to import certain products into the United States. Our business depends on the use of fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products. The use and disposal of these products in some jurisdictions are subject to regulation by various agencies. A decision by a regulatory agency to significantly restrict the use of such products that have traditionally been used in the cultivation of one of our principal products could have an adverse impact on us. For example, most uses of methyl bromide, a pesticide used for fumigation of imported produce (principally melons) for which there is currently no known substitute, were phased out in the United States in 2006, however, various exemptions will allow its use offshore until 2015. Also, under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the EPA is undertaking a series of regulatory actions relating to the evaluation and use of pesticides in the food industry. Similarly, in the EU, regulation (EC) No. 1107/2009 will apply starting June 14, 2011 and will fundamentally change the pesticide approval process from the current risk base to hazard criteria based on the intrinsic properties of the substance. These actions and future actions regarding the availability and use of pesticides could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, if a regulatory agency were to determine that we are not in compliance with a regulation in that agency’s jurisdiction, this could result in substantial penalties and a ban on the sale of part or all of our products in that jurisdiction. There has been a broad range of proposed and promulgated state, national and international regulation aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. Such regulations apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. In the United States, there is a significant possibility that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level to address the effects of climate change. Such regulation could take any of several forms that result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Climate change regulation continues to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, we do not believe that such regulation is reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business, results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. 17 We are exposed to political, economic and other risks from operating a multinational business. Our business is multinational and subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include those of adverse government regulation, including the imposition of import and export duties and quotas, currency restrictions, expropriation and potentially burdensome taxation. For example, banana import regulations have in prior years restricted our access to the EU banana market and increased the cost of doing business in the EU. On December 15, 2009, the EU entered into an agreement with certain Latin America banana exporting countries to settle the long running dispute over banana import tariffs. The EU will gradually reduce import tariffs on bananas from Latin America from the current level of €176 per ton to €114 per ton in 2017. 160;The largest reduction in the import tariff of €28 per ton was retroactively effective to December 15, 2009. This agreement was ratified during the first half of 2010. The EU continues to negotiate Free Trade Agreements with Latin American banana-producing countries, and there is a possibility that some form of new EU banana tariff-rate quotas will be reinstated. We cannot predict the impact of further changes to the banana import tariffs or new quotas, on the EU banana market. Costa Rica and Ecuador, countries in which we operate, have established “minimum” export prices for bananas that are used as the reference point in banana purchase contracts from independent producers, thus limiting our ability to negotiate lower purchase prices. These minimum export price requirements could potentially increase the cost of sourcing bananas in countries that have established such requirements. We are also subject to a variety of government regulations in countries where we market our products, including the United States, the countries of the EU, Asia, countries of the Middle East and Africa. Examples of the types of regulation we face include: ● sanitary regulations; ● regulations governing pesticide use and residue levels; and ● regulations governing packaging and labeling. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, it could result in an order barring the sale of part or all of a particular shipment of our products or, possibly, the sale of any of our products for a specified period. Such a development could result in significant losses and could weaken our financial condition. The distribution of our fresh produce in Southern Europe could be adversely affected if we are not successful in performing our own fresh produce products distribution, sales and marketing function. We import and distribute a substantial portion of our fresh produce in Southern Europe through a marketing entity with which we have an exclusive arrangement. A discontinuation of this exclusive arrangement may affect our ability to import and distribute our fresh produce products in Southern Europe and the Mediterranean region. On June 16, 2008, as a result of continuing disagreements with this distributor related to operational issues, we delivered our formal notice that we will cease all business with them by December 31, 2011. Commencing in 2012, we plan to perform our own distribution in these markets by establishing our own sales and marketing organization. Our inability to successfully perform our own distribution, sales and marketing activities could affect the sale of our fresh produce products in Southern Europe and the Mediterranean region and may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Acts or omissions of other companies could adversely affect the value of the DEL MONTE® brand. We depend on the DEL MONTE® brand in marketing our products. We share the DEL MONTE® brand with unaffiliated companies that manufacture, distribute and sell canned or processed fruit and vegetables, dried fruit, snacks and other products. Acts or omissions by these companies, including an instance of food-borne contamination or disease, may adversely affect the value of the DEL MONTE ® brand. Our reputation and the value of the DEL MONTE ® brand may be adversely affected by negative consumer perception of this brand. Our success depends on the services of our senior executives, the loss of whom could disrupt our operations. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified senior management personnel. 18 Our acquisition and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our growth strategy is based in part on growth through acquisitions or expansion, which poses a number of risks. We may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates, consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrating any newly acquired or expanded business with our current operations. We may issue Ordinary Shares, incur long-term or short-term indebtedness, spend cash or use a combination of these for all or part of the consideration paid in future acquisitions or to expand our operations. The execution of our acquisition and expansion strategy may entail repositioning or similar actions that in turn require us to record impairments, restructuring and other charges. Any such charges would reduce our earnings. Our indebtedness could limit our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing or refinance our debt on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited either by financial considerations or due to covenants in existing loan agreements. Our ability to meet our financial obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our financial obligations also may be adversely affected by the seasonal nature of our business, the cyclical nature of agricultural commodity prices, the susceptibility of our product sourcing to crop disease, severe weather and other adverse environmental conditions and other factors. Since we are an exempted holding company, our ability to meet our financial obligations depends primarily on receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends or other distributions to us by our subsidiaries may be restricted by the provisions of our credit agreements and other contractual requirements and by applicable legal restrictions on payment of dividends. If we were unable to meet our financial obligations, we would be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional equity capital, strategies which might not be successful. Additional sales of our equity capital could substantially dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. Our new credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on our activities. Our failure to comply with the obligations under this facility, including maintenance of financial ratios, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, would permit acceleration by the lender of the indebtedness due under the facility. We are controlled by our principal shareholders. Members of the Abu-Ghazaleh family, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and one of our directors, are our principal shareholders. Together, as of February 18, 2011, they beneficially own 35.1% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer holds, and is expected to continue to hold, an irrevocable annual proxy to vote all of these shares. We expect our principal shareholders to continue to use their interest in our Ordinary Shares to significantly influence the direction of our management, the election of our entire board of directors, the method and timing of the payment of dividends, subject to applicable debt covenants and to determine substantially all other matters requiring shareholder approval and to control us. The concentration of our beneficial ownership may have the effe ct of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for the Ordinary Shares at a premium over their market price and may otherwise adversely affect the market price of the Ordinary Shares. A substantial number of our Ordinary Shares are available for sale in the public market, and sales of those shares could adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares by our principal shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Ordinary Shares. Of the 58,787,283 Ordinary Shares outstanding as of February 18, 2011, 20,659,151 Ordinary Shares are owned by the principal shareholders and are “restricted securities.” These “restricted” Ordinary Shares can be registered upon demand and are eligible for sale in the public market without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), subject to compliance with the resale volume limitations and other restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 19 Our organizational documents contain a variety of anti-takeover provisions that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control. Various provisions of our organizational documents and Cayman Islands law may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us that is not approved by our board of directors. These provisions include: ● a classified board of directors; ● a prohibition on shareholder action through written consents; ● a requirement that general meetings of shareholders be called only by a majority of the board of directors or by the Chairman of the Board; ● advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; ● limitations on the ability of shareholders to amend, alter or repeal our organizational documents; and ● the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred shares with such terms as the board of directors may determine. In addition, a change of control would constitute an event of default under our new credit facility, which would have a material adverse effect on us. These provisions also could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt. Our shareholders have limited rights under Cayman Islands law. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the Companies Law (As Revised) of the Cayman Islands. Principles of law relating to matters, such as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of our management, directors and controlling shareholders and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States. Further, the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent applicable in most U.S. jurisdictions. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, direc tors or controlling shareholders than they might have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce, either in an original action or in an action for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, liabilities that are predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 