D. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In particular, as we are a non-U.S. company, there are risks associated with investing in our ADSs, that are not typical for investments in the shares of U.S. companies. Prior to making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the information contained in this document, including the following risk factors. Risks Relating to the Exchange Offer and Mergers involving TAM S.A. Both commencement and completion of the exchange offer are subject to many conditions precedent and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the proposed combination with TAM S.A. will not be completed We and TAM S.A., a Brazilian company (“TAM”), are proposing to combine to form the leading Latin American airline group with the largest fleet of aircraft of any airline in Latin America. When the proposed combination is completed, LAN will be the holding company of the combined companies and will change its name to “LATAM Airlines Group S.A.” (“LATAM”). The proposed combination will be implemented through a delisting exchange offer to be made in the United States and in Brazil to acquire all of the outstanding voting common shares of TAM (“TAM common shares”), non-voting preferred shares of TAM (“TAM preferred shares and collectively with the TAM common shares, the “TAM shares”) and American Depositary Shares representing TAM shares (“TAM ADSs”), in each case other than any such shares owned indirectly by the TAM controlling shareholders (as defined below), and other mergers and corporate restructuring transactions described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Proposed Combination with TAM”, in each case pursuant to the terms and conditions of the implementation agreement and the exchange offer agreement entered into on January 18, 2011 (the “transaction agreements”) by LAN, TAM, the controlling shareholders of LAN under Chilean law (Costa Verde Aeronáutica S.A. and Inversiones Mineras del Cantábrico S.A., which we refer to individually as “Costa Verde Aeronáutica” and “Mineras del Cantábrico,” respectively and collectively as the “LAN controlling shareholders”), the controlling shareholders of TAM under Brazilian law (Noemy Almeida Oliveira Amaro, Maria Cláudia Oliveira Amaro, Maurício Rolim Amaro and João Francisco Amaro, whom we refer to collectively as the “TAM controlling shareholders”), and TAM Empreendimentos e Participações S.A., a company through which the TAM controlling shareholders held their TAM shares (as defined below) at that time ( “TEP”). The commencement of the exchange offer is subject to certain conditions set forth in the transaction agreements as described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements—Conditions for the Commencement of the Exchange Offer”, including receipt of all required regulatory approvals (including the required approvals from the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (“CVM”), the Superintendencia de Valores y Seguros (the Chilean Securities and Insurance Supervisor) (“SVS”), and the SEC. In addition, approval of the proposed combination by our shareholders is subject to the rendering of a final decision by the Chilean Supreme Court on our appeal of the mitigation measures imposed by the Tribunal de Defensa de la Competencia (Chilean Free Competition Defense Court) (“TDLC”) in connection to the proposed combination with TAM. The completion of the exchange offer is also subject to certain conditions set forth in the transaction agreements as described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements—Conditions to Completion of the Exchange Offer,” including the following: Delisting Condition • The number of qualifying minority shares that are held by “agreeing shareholders” must be more than 66 2/3% of the total number of qualifying minority shares that are held by agreeing shareholders and disagreeing shareholders (this is the minimum threshold required to cause the deregistration of TAM as a public company in Brazil with CVM and the delisting of TAM shares from the BM&FBovespa (“Bovespa”). 10 Table of Contents • A holder will be deemed to be an “agreeing shareholder” with respect to its qualifying minority shares only if such holder: • validly tenders such qualifying minority shares into the exchange offer through the US exchange agent and does not withdraw such shares from the exchange offer; or • qualifies such qualifying minority shares for participation in the auction to be held on Bovespa (the “Auction”) and: • tenders such shares into, and does not withdraw them from, the Auction; and/or • indicates on the qualification form (a copy of which will be included with the letter of transmittal mailed to holders of TAM shares in connection with the exchange offer) that it agrees with the deregistration of TAM as a public company in Brazil with CVM. • A holder will be deemed to be a “disagreeing shareholder” with respect to its qualifying minority shares only if such holder: • validly tenders such qualifying minority shares into the exchange offer through the US exchange agent and subsequently withdraws such shares from the exchange offer; or • qualifies such qualifying minority shares for participation in the Auction and: • does not tender such shares in the Auction; and/or • indicates on the qualification form (a copy of which will be included with the letter of transmittal) that it disagrees with the deregistration of TAM as a public company in Brazil with CVM. • For purposes of the delisting condition, “qualifying minority shares” mean all outstanding TAM shares not represented by TAM ADSs and all outstanding TAM ADSs, in each case that are not owned by TAM, the TAM controlling shareholders, any of their related persons (“pessoas vinculadas”) or any director or executive officer of TAM. • The delisting condition will not be waivable under Brazilian law, so if the delisting condition is not satisfied, the exchange offer will terminate and the mergers will not be completed. Squeeze-Out Condition • The sum of (i) the number of TAM shares and TAM ADSs validly tendered into, and not withdrawn from, the exchange offer and (ii) the number of TAM shares beneficially owned by the TAM controlling shareholders (which represented approximately 46.63% of the outstanding TAM shares as of March 28, 2012), represents more than 95% of the total number of outstanding TAM shares (including those represented by TAM ADSs) (this is the minimum acquisition threshold required under applicable Brazilian law to give TAM the right to compulsorily redeem any TAM shares (including those represented by TAM ADSs) not owned by LAN or Holdco I S.A. (“Holdco I”) after completion of the exchange offer, the mergers and the other transactions described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements”); and 11 Table of Contents • The absence of certain actions, events or circumstances that, individually or in the aggregate, have had an adverse effect on the businesses, revenues, operations or financial condition of TAM and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in all material respects. Certain of these conditions may not be waived without written agreement of both LAN and the TAM controlling shareholders, and neither LAN nor the TAM controlling shareholders has any obligation to waive any conditions not satisfied on or prior to the expiration of the exchange offer. Therefore, even if we are willing to waive an unsatisfied condition, we may be unable to complete the exchange offer if the TAM controlling shareholders refuse to waive the condition. In addition, the obligation of the TAM controlling shareholders under the transaction agreements to contribute their TAM shares into the proposed combination prior to the completion of the exchange offer is subject to certain conditions relating to the operations and business of LAN and certain events outside of our control. Payment of such subscriptions is a condition to the completion of the exchange offer. If any of these conditions is not satisfied or waived, the exchange offer and mergers will not be completed. If the squeeze-out condition is not satisfied and we waive this condition, we may be unable to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination If the squeeze-out condition is not satisfied and we waive this condition, TAM will not be permitted under Brazilian law to compulsorily redeem any TAM shares (including those represented by TAM ADSs) that were not acquired in the exchange offer and the mergers unless LAN later acquires a sufficient number of TAM shares (including those represented by TAM ADSs) so as to allow TAM to compulsorily redeem the remaining outstanding TAM shares and TAM ADSs pursuant to Brazilian law. Depending on the quantity of minority shareholders remaining after completion of the exchange offer and the mergers, their existence may limit LATAM’s ability to combine the businesses and operations of LAN and TAM, which could adversely affect the combined companies’ ability to realize the potential benefits and cost savings from combining these businesses. Failure to fully realize these potential benefits and any temporary or permanent delay in integrating the businesses and operations of these two companies, could adversely affect the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of the combined companies after the completion of the proposed combination. The final decision by the Chilean Supreme Court in connection with the mitigation measures imposed by the Chilean Free Competition Defense Court may not be rendered on time Before the proposed combination of LAN and TAM may be completed, the final decision of the Chilean Supreme Court with respect to the appeal filed by LAN seeking the amendment or elimination of three of the conditions set forth in the decision issued by the TDLC with respect to the proposed combination with TAM, has been rendered. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—Proposed Combination with TAM” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements—Conditions to Commencement of the Exchange Offer”, for a discussion of the status of the Company’s appeal. A final decision by the Chilean Supreme Court with respect to the appeal is expected by the Company in the next month, but there can be no assurance that the decision will be obtained within the expected time frame, or that the decision will not prevent the transaction to go forward. If the final decision of the Chilean Supreme Court is not rendered by the expected time frame, and this situation is not waived by the parties to the transactions agreements, the exchange offer and mergers will not be completed. Any delay in completing the proposed combination may reduce or eliminate the benefits we expect to be achieved as a result of the proposed combination The proposed combination is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether or when these other conditions will be satisfied. Any delay in completing the proposed combination could cause the combined companies not to realize some or all of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the proposed combination is successfully completed within its expected time frame. 12 Table of Contents Failure to complete the proposed combination could negatively impact our stock price and future business and financial results If the proposed combination is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected, and we would be subject to several risks, including the following: • being required to pay a termination fee to TAM of $200 million and reimburse of TAM’s expenses under certain circumstances provided in the transaction agreements; • having to pay certain costs relating to the proposed combination, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; and • having had our management focus on the proposed combination instead of pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. If the proposed combination is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. The transaction agreements contain provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer of LAN The transaction agreements require our board of directors to recommend that its shareholders approve the proposed combination and does not permit our board of directors to withdraw or adversely modify those recommendations. The transaction agreements also contains “no shop” provisions that prohibit us from soliciting, initiating or encouraging any competing third party proposals, including acquisitions of our equity securities or material assets, and there are no exceptions to these provisions. In addition, if the transaction agreements are terminated under certain circumstances, we may be required to pay to TAM a termination fee of $200 million and to reimburse TAM for expenses incurred by TAM in connection with the transaction agreements and the proposed combination. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company—The Transaction Agreements—Termination”. These provisions could discourage a potential third-party acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of LAN from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a value per share higher than the benefits LAN shareholders may receive from the proposed combination, or might result in a potential third-party acquiror proposing to pay a lower price to the LAN shareholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $200 million termination fee and expense reimbursement that may become payable in certain circumstances. The fairness opinion obtained by our board of directors from our financial advisor will not reflect changes in circumstances between signing the transaction agreements and the completion of the proposed combination While our board of directors received an initial fairness opinion from J.P. Morgan, our financial advisor, before we entered into the transaction agreements (the “Initial JPM Opinion”), and a supplemental fairness opinion, dated November 11, 2011 (the “Supplemental JPM Opinion”), we have not obtained an updated fairness opinion as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F. Changes in our operations and prospects and those of TAM, general market and economic conditions and other factors which may be beyond our control and on which the fairness opinions were based may alter the value of LAN or TAM and/or the prices of our common shares and/or the TAM shares by the time the proposed combination is completed. The Initial JPM Opinion and the Supplemental JPM speak only as of the date of such opinions and not as of the time the proposed combination will be completed or as of any other date. Because we do not anticipate asking our financial advisor to further update its fairness opinion, neither the Initial JPM Opinion nor the Supplemental JPM Opinion address the fairness of the exchange ratios in the exchange offer, from a financial point of view, to us at the time the proposed combination will be completed. 13 Table of Contents Resales of LAN shares issued in the mergers may cause the market price of such shares to fall As of March 28, 2012, 340,977,309 LAN shares were issued and outstanding (of which 33.84% were beneficially owned by the LAN controlling shareholders) and 1,216,251 LAN shares were subject to issuance upon exercise of outstanding options and other rights to purchase such shares. In the mergers, LAN expects to issue a significant amount of LAN shares in the form of LAN American Depositary Shares (“LAN ADSs”) and LAN Brazilian Depositary Shares (“LAN BDSs”) to the holders of TAM shares and TAM ADSs in exchange for their TAM shares or TAM ADSs, although the actual number of LAN shares issued will depend on the extent to which holders of such TAM shares and TAM ADSs elect to tender their TAM shares and/or TAM ADSs into the exchange offer and the number of vested stock options and other rights to acquire TAM shares that are exercised before the completion of the exchange offer and the mergers. If all holders of TAM shares and TAM ADSs, other than the TAM controlling shareholders, validly tender all of their TAM shares and/or TAM ADSs into, and do not withdraw them from, the exchange offer, the TAM controlling shareholders contribute all of their TAM shares into the proposed business combination and no TAM shares (including those represented by TAM ADSs) or LAN shares (including those represented by LAN ADSs and LAN BDSs) are issued after the date of the exchange offer other than the LAN common shares to be issued pursuant to the exchange offer and the mergers which will be represented by LAN ADSs and LAN BDSs, then LAN will issue a total of 140,586,107 LAN common shares in connection with the exchange offer and the mergers and immediately after the effective time of the mergers, the issued and outstanding LAN shares (including those represented by LAN ADSs and LAN BDSs but excluding those reserved under stock option plans) will be owned approximately as follows: 13.62% of such LAN shares will be held by the TAM controlling shareholders, 15.59% of such LAN shares will be held by the holders of TAM shares and TAM ADSs other than the TAM controlling shareholders, 23.97% of such LAN shares will be held by the LAN controlling shareholders and 46.82% of such LAN shares will be held by the holders of LAN shares other than the LAN controlling shareholders. If there are substantial sales of the newly issued LAN shares shortly after the effective time of the mergers, this could adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, the LAN common shares, the LAN ADSs and the LAN BDSs. Risks Relating to the Combination of LAN and TAM LAN may be unable to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination After completion of the proposed combination, LAN will change its name to “LATAM Airlines Group S.A.” The proposed combination involves bringing together two large and complex businesses that currently operate as independent public companies. LAN will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating certain aspects of the business practices and operations of LAN and TAM. The success of the proposed combination will depend, in part, on LAN’s ability to realize anticipated revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities by combining the businesses of LAN and TAM. LAN hopes to generate synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities, rationalization of operations and headcount, greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration, new product and service offerings and organic growth. There is a risk, however, that LAN may not be able to combine the businesses of LAN and TAM in a manner that permits LAN to realize these revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities in the time, manner or amounts LAN currently expects or at all. Potential difficulties LAN may encounter as part of the integration process include, among other things: • the inability to successfully combine the businesses of LAN and TAM in a manner that permits LAN to achieve the full revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities anticipated to result from the proposed combination; • complexities associated with managing the combined companies; • the need to implement, integrate and harmonize various business-specific operating procedures and systems, as well as the financial, accounting, information and other systems of LAN and TAM; • potential loss of key employees as a result of implementing the proposed combination; • the need to coordinate the existing products and customer bases of LAN and TAM; and 14 Table of Contents • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the exchange offer, the mergers and the other combination transactions, including one-time cash costs to complete and implement the proposed combination that may exceed the one-time cash costs that LAN currently anticipates. In addition, LAN and TAM have operated and, until the completion of the exchange offer and the mergers, will continue to operate under their existing separate airline certificates. It is possible that the integration process could result in: • diversion of management’s attention from their normal areas of responsibility to address integration issues; and • the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in its standards, controls, procedures and policies, each of which could adversely affect each company’s ability to maintain good relationships with its customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination, and could increase costs or reduce each company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the businesses, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects of the combined companies following the completion of the exchange offer and the mergers. Actual revenue synergies, cost savings, growth opportunities and efficiency and operational benefits that result from the proposed combination may be lower and may take a longer time to achieve than LAN currently expects. The integration of two large companies also presents significant management challenges. In order to achieve the anticipated benefits of the proposed combination, the operations of the two companies will need to be reorganized and their resources will need to be combined in a timely and flexible manner. There can be no assurance that LAN will be able to implement these steps as anticipated or at all. If LAN fails to achieve the planned restructuring effectively within the time frame that is currently contemplated or to the extent that is currently planned, or if for any other reason the expected revenue synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities fail to materialize, the exchange offer, the mergers and the other combination transactions described in this annual report may not produce the benefits LAN currently anticipates. LAN has and will continue to incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the proposed combination and integration of the business operations of LAN and TAM LAN has incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the proposed combination and the integration of LAN and TAM. LAN incurred approximately US$15 million in non-recurring expenses in connection with the proposed combination in 2011, and expects to incur US$25 million in such expenses in 2012. Significant costs and expenses have been and are being incurred related to the exchange offer, the mergers and the other transactions. These costs and expenses include financial advisory, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, reorganization and restructuring costs, severance/employee benefit-related expenses, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. Some of these costs are payable by LAN and TAM depending on the nature of the expense and regardless of whether the proposed combination is completed. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the proposed combination. While both LAN and TAM have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with these transactions, there are many factors beyond LAN’s and TAM’s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the proposed combination that LAN may not recoup. These costs and expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that LAN expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale, other efficiencies and cost savings. Although LAN expects that these savings will offset these integration and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. 15 Table of Contents LAN will not control the voting shares or board of directors of TAM After completion of the exchange offer, the mergers and the other transactions contemplated by the transaction agreements: • Holdco I will own 100% of the TAM common shares that were: • contributed by the TAM controlling shareholders, or • acquired pursuant to the exchange offer, • LAN will own 100% of the TAM preferred shares that were acquired pursuant to the exchange offer or contributed by the TAM controlling shareholders, • The TAM controlling shareholders will own at least 80% of the outstanding Holdco I voting shares and LAN will own no more than 20% of the outstanding Holdco I voting shares, due to a Brazilian restriction that prohibits non-Brazilians to own more than 20% of a Brazilian airline, and • LAN will own 100% of the outstanding Holdco I non-voting shares, which will entitle it to essentially all of the economic rights in respect of the TAM common shares held by Holdco I. As a result of this ownership structure: • the TAM controlling shareholders will, by virtue of their control of the voting shares of Holdco I and the boards of directors of each of Holdco I, TAM and each airline subsidiary of TAM, retain voting and board control of TAM and each airline subsidiary of TAM; and • LAN, by virtue of its ownership of all of the non-voting shares of Holdco I and TAM preferred shares acquired pursuant to the exchange offer and the mergers, will be entitled to virtually all of the economic rights in TAM subject only to the rights of holders of any TAM shares not so acquired. LAN, the TAM controlling shareholders and other parties have entered into shareholders agreements that establish agreements and restrictions relating to corporate governance in an attempt to balance LAN’s interests, as the owner of substantially all of the economic rights in TAM, and the TAM controlling shareholders, as the continuing controlling shareholders of TAM under Brazilian law, by prohibiting the taking of certain specified material corporate actions and decisions without prior supermajority approval of the shareholders (5/6 of the total of the shareholders) and/or the board of directors of Holdco I or TAM. However, no assurances can be given that LAN and the TAM controlling shareholders will be able to reach an agreement with respect to such supermajority voting or board matters in the future and if they do not, the businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined companies could be adversely affected. In addition, pursuant to these shareholder agreements, neither Holdco I, TAM nor TAM’s subsidiaries may take certain actions without the prior approval of a supermajority of the board of directors and/or the shareholders of Holdco I or TAM. As a result of these supermajority requirements, these actions will effectively require the prior approval of both LAN and TEP Chile S.A. (“TEP Chile”) (which will be wholly owned by the TAM controlling shareholders). Actions requiring supermajority approval by the board of directors of Holdco I or TAM include, among others, entering into acquisitions or business collaborations, amending or approving budgets, business plans, financial statements and accounting policies, incurring indebtedness, encumbering assets, entering into certain agreements, making certain investments, modifying rights or claims, entering into settlements, appointing executives, creating security interests, issuing, redeeming or repurchasing securities and voting on matters as a shareholder of subsidiaries of TAM. Actions requiring supermajority shareholder approval of Holdco I or TAM include, among others, certain changes to the by-laws of Holdco I, TAM or TAM’s subsidiaries or any dissolution/liquidation, corporate reorganization, payment of dividends, issuance of securities, disposal or encumbrance of certain assets, creation of securities interest or entering into guarantees and agreements with related parties. 16 Table of Contents Uncertainties associated with the proposed combination may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees that could adversely affect LAN, TAM and/or the combined companies The success of the proposed combination is dependent, in part, on the experience and industry knowledge of their senior management and other key employees of LAN and TAM and their ability to execute their business plans. In order to be successful, LAN, TAM and the combined companies must be able to retain the senior management and other key employees and their ability to attract highly qualified personnel in the future. Current and prospective employees of LAN and TAM may experience uncertainty about their roles within LATAM following completion of the proposed combination, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of LAN, TAM or the combined companies to retain or attract senior management and other key employees. Competition for highly qualified personnel in the various localities and business segments in which LAN and TAM operate, is intense. No assurances can be given that LAN and TAM or, after completion of the proposed combination, the combined companies will be able to retain or attract senior management and other key employees to the same extent that LAN and TAM have previously been able to do so. The financial results of LATAM will be more exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations as a result of the proposed combination and the resulting increase in the proportion of assets, liabilities and earnings that are denominated in currencies other than US dollars LATAM will prepare and present its consolidated financial statements in US dollars. The proposed combination will significantly increase the proportion of LAN’s consolidated net assets, revenues and income in non-US dollar currencies, primarily Chilean pesos and Brazilian real. The consolidated financial condition and results of operations of LATAM will therefore be more sensitive to movements in exchange rates between the US dollar and other currencies. A depreciation of non-US dollar currencies relative to the US dollar could have an adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of LATAM. LATAM’s future results will suffer if it cannot effectively manage its expanded operations following completion of the proposed combination Following the completion of the proposed combination, the size of the business of the combined companies will be significantly larger and more complex than the current business of LAN or TAM. LAN’s future success will depend, in part, on LAN’s ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including those related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that LATAM will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and other benefits currently anticipated by LAN and TAM from the proposed combination. The proposed combination could cause a downgrade of LAN’s credit ratings, which could have a negative effect on LAN’s business TAM currently has a lower credit rating and is more leveraged than LAN. As a result of the proposed combination, LAN’s credit rating could be downgraded by one or more credit rating agencies, which could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of the combined companies. If LAN’s credit rating is downgraded, it could affect LAN’s ability to finance future fleet acquisitions and/or increase LAN’s financing costs. It may take time to combine the frequent flyer programs of LAN and TAM LAN and TAM each currently run their own frequent flyer programs. While LAN intends to integrate these programs so that passengers can use frequent flyer miles earned with either LAN or TAM interchangeably, there is no guarantee that this integration will be completed in the near term or at all. Even if the integration occurs, the successful integration of these programs will involve some time and expense. Until LAN effectively combines these programs, passengers may prefer frequent flyer programs offered by other airlines, which may adversely affect our business. 17 Table of Contents LATAM will have to withdraw from an existing airline alliance to which LAN or TAM belongs LAN is currently a member of the oneworld® airline alliance while TAM is a member of the Star Alliance airline alliance. Although LAN and TAM will continue operating under their existing separate operating certificates after the proposed combination, due to conditions imposed by the Chilean and Brazilian antitrust regulators, LAN and TAM may not participate in more than one airline alliance after the end of the 24-month period following completion of the proposed combination. LAN and TAM are currently evaluating and have not decided yet to which airline alliance they will belong after the completion of the proposed combination with TAM. The withdrawal from one of the alliances after the proposed combination may impede LATAM from providing customers with exactly the same benefits currently provided by LAN and TAM, such as the same travel destinations, combined reservation system, itinerary flexibility, among others. As a result, passengers may prefer alliances offered by LATAM’s competitors, and consequently decide to fly with them, which may adversely affect LATAM’s business. Risks Related to our Operations and the Airline Industry Our performance is heavily dependent on economic conditions in the countries in which we do business and negative economic conditions in those countries could have an adverse impact on our business. Passenger and cargo demand is heavily cyclical and highly dependent on global and local economic growth, economic expectations and foreign exchange rate variations, among other things. In the past, our business has been negatively affected by global economic recessionary conditions, weak economic growth in Chile, recession in Argentina and poor economic performance in certain emerging market countries in which we operate. The occurrence of similar events in the future could adversely affect our business. In fact, starting as of late 2008, and during 2009, many of the countries we serve, including Chile, experienced economic slowdowns or recessions, which translated into a substantial weakening of demand. We plan to continue to expand our operations based in Latin America and our performance will, therefore, continue to depend heavily on economic conditions in the region. Any of the following factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the countries in which we operate: • changes in economic or other governmental policies; • weak economic performance, including, but not limited to, low economic growth, low consumption and/or investment rates, and increased inflation rates; or • other political or economic developments over which we have no control. Driven by the severe downturn in the global economy, including in the economies of many of the countries we serve, we began to experience weakening demand in cargo late in 2008, and this weak demand continued into 2009. However, we began to experience a recovery in cargo traffic in late 2009, which continued improving during 2010 and 2011. If the regional economic environment continues its positive performance, demand in cargo may continue to grow during the current year. No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or other steps we may take will be adequate to offset any future reduction in our cargo and/or air travel demand. The success of our business depends upon key regulatory issues and these issues may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is highly regulated and depends substantially upon the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate or intend to operate. For example, price controls on fares may limit our ability to effectively apply customer segmentation profit maximization techniques (“passenger revenue management”) (management techniques utilizing passenger demand forecasting and fare mix optimization techniques to maximize profit for an airline) and adjust prices to reflect cost pressures. High levels of government regulation may limit the scope of our operations and our growth plans, especially in the event of deterioration of the relations between the countries in which we operate or the public perception of foreign companies in local markets. Accordingly, regulatory issues could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we or certain aviation authorities (among them, those from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Colombia and the United States) fail to maintain the required foreign and domestic governmental authorizations. In order to maintain the necessary authorizations issued by the Chilean Junta Aeronáutica Civil (“JAC”) and technical operative authorizations issued by the Chilean Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil (“DGAC”), and other corresponding local authorities of the countries in which we operate, we must continue to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We depend on strategic alliances or commercial relationships in many of the countries in which we operate and our business may suffer if any of our strategic alliances or commercial relationships terminates. In many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we have found it in our interest, to maintain a number of alliances and other commercial relationships. These alliances or commercial relationships allow us to enhance our network and, in some cases, to offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. If any of our strategic alliances or commercial relationships and, in particular, with American Airlines, Iberia, Qantas or oneworld® deteriorates, or any of these agreements are terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our business and results of operation may suffer if we fail to obtain and maintain routes, suitable airport access, slots and other operating permits. Our business depends upon our access to key routes and airports. Our operations could be constrained by any delay or inability to gain access to key routes or airports, including: • limitations on our ability to process more passengers; • the imposition of flight capacity restrictions; • the inability to secure or maintain route rights in local markets or under bilateral agreements; or • the inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain additional slots. We operate numerous international routes, subject to bilateral agreements and also internal flights within Chile, Argentina, Peru and other countries, subject to local route and airport access approvals. Bilateral aviation agreements as well as local aviation approvals frequently involve political and other considerations outside of our control. See “Item 4. Information on the Company— Business Overview—Regulation—Route Rights”. There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agreements between the countries in which our companies are based and permits from foreign governments will continue. A modification, suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The suspension of our permission to operate in certain airports or destinations or the imposition of other sanctions could also have a material adverse effect. We cannot assure that a change in a foreign government’s administration of current laws and regulations or that the adoption of new laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain favorable take-off and landing authorizations at certain high-density airports, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain all requested authorizations and slots in the future because, among other factors, government policies regulating the distribution of the authorizations and slots are subject to change. 19 Table of Contents A failure to successfully implement our growth strategy would harm our business and the market value of the ADSs and our common shares. Our growth strategy involves increasing the frequency of flights to the markets we currently serve and expanding our service to new markets. In order to carry out this strategy, we must be able to identify the appropriate geographic markets upon which to focus and to gain suitable airport access and route approval in these markets. There can be no assurance that the new markets we enter or in which we are seeking to expand our operations will provide passenger and cargo traffic that is sufficient to make our operations in those new markets profitable. The expansion of our business will also require additional skilled personnel, equipment and facilities. An inability to hire and retain skilled personnel or secure the required equipment and facilities efficiently and cost-effectively may adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. Expansion of our markets and flight frequencies may also strain our existing management resources and operational, financial and management information systems to the point that they may no longer be adequate to support our operations, requiring us to make significant expenditures in these areas. Our business may be adversely affected by a downturn in the airline industry caused by exogenous events that affect travel behavior or increase costs, such as outbreak of disease, natural disasters, war or terrorist attacks. Demand for air transportation may be adversely impacted by exogenous events, such as natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist attacks, war or political and social instability. Situations such as these in one or more of the markets in which we operate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of situations could have a prolonged effect on air transportation demand and on certain cost items. During January 2010, bad weather affected the city of Cuzco in Peru causing important human and material damage and severely affecting this tourist destination. This affected our operations, which led us to decrease our capacity in order to improve load factors. We estimate the net impact of decreased passenger operations to have been approximately US$15.0 million. In addition, on February 27, 2010, an earthquake struck Chile causing major damages mainly in the southern regions of the country. This earthquake damaged the terminal building at the Santiago International Airport causing the suspension of LAN’s passenger services to and from Chile until March 1, 2010. Lan Cargo’s operations suffered no impact since Lan Cargo has flexibility to redesign itineraries if and when needed. As of March 28, 2010, operations were restored to normal levels and the airport started to operate normally. As of December 31, 2010, we estimate the net impact of decreased passenger operations due to the earthquake to have been approximately US$30 million. In 2011 the Company was also impacted by the presence of volcanic ash on certain routes which resulted in US$36.6 million losses. Terrorist attacks may also have a severe adverse impact on the airline industry. For example, the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 substantially affected the airline industry, particularly foreign air carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Throughout South America, passenger traffic also decreased substantially, although the decrease was less severe than that in the United States. The airline industry experienced increased costs following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Airlines have been required to adopt additional security measures and may be required to comply with more rigorous security guidelines in the future. In addition, fuel prices and supplies, which constitute a significant cost for us, may increase as a result of any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in hostilities or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries. Such increases may result in both higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for air travel generally, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Presently, there is a trend towards increases in jet fuel prices because of the increased demand caused by the 2010 recovery in the global economy coupled with conflicts during 2011 in Egypt and Libya that affected global fuel supply. It is impossible for us to predict if we will be able to fully protect ourselves against the volatility of fuel costs. 20 Table of Contents A significant portion of our cargo revenues comes from relatively few product types and may be impacted by events affecting their production or trade. Our cargo demand, especially from Latin American exporters, is concentrated in a small number of product categories, such as fish and sea products and produce exports from Chile and Peru, and fresh flowers from Ecuador and Colombia. Events that negatively affect the production or trade of these goods may adversely affect the volume of goods that we transport and may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Some of our cargo products are sensitive to foreign exchange rates and, therefore, traffic volumes could be impacted by the appreciation or depreciation of local currencies. In mid 2007, there was an outbreak of infectious salmon anemia virus (“ISA Virus”) in Chile, which was temporarily contained during 2008 but has continued to affect exports since then. The outbreak of ISA Virus has caused, and may continue to cause, a significant decline in salmon exports and has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our cargo operations. Our operations are subject to fluctuations in the supply and cost of jet fuel, which could negatively impact our business. Higher jet fuel prices or a shortage in the supply of fuel could cause a reduction in our scheduled service and could have a materially negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Jet fuel costs have historically accounted for a significant amount of our operating expenses, and accounted for approximately 34% of our operating expenses in 2011. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic and political factors and events that we can neither control nor predict. We have entered into fuel hedging arrangements, but there can be no assurance that such arrangements will be adequate to protect us from a significant increase in fuel prices in the near future or in the long term. Also, while these hedging arrangements are designed to limit the effect of an increase in fuel prices, some of our hedging methods may also limit our ability to take advantage of any decrease in fuel prices. Although we have implemented measures to pass a portion of incremental fuel costs to our customers, our ability to lessen the impact of any increase using these types of mechanisms may also be limited. We rely on maintaining a high daily aircraft utilization rate to increase our revenues, which makes us especially vulnerable to delays. One of the key elements of our business strategy is to maintain a high daily aircraft utilization rate, which measures the number of flight hours we use our aircraft per day. High daily aircraft utilization allows us to maximize the amount of revenue we generate from our aircraft and is achieved, in part, by reducing turnaround times at airports and developing schedules that enable us to increase the average hours flown per day. Our rate of aircraft utilization could be adversely affected by a number of different factors that are beyond our control, including air traffic and airport congestion, adverse weather conditions and delays by third-party service providers relating to matters such as fueling and ground handling. Furthermore, high aircraft utilization rates increase the risk that, if an aircraft falls behind schedule, it could remain behind schedule for up to two days. Such delays could result in a disruption in our operating performance, leading to customer dissatisfaction due to any resulting delays or missed connections. We fly and depend upon Airbus and Boeing aircraft, and our business is at risk if we do not receive timely deliveries of aircraft, if aircraft from these companies becomes unavailable or if the public negatively perceives our aircraft. As our fleet has grown, our reliance on Airbus and Boeing has also grown. As of December 31, 2011, we operated a fleet of 81 Airbus, 54 Boeing and 14 Dash aircraft. These risks include: • our failure or inability to obtain Airbus or Boeing aircraft, parts or related support services on a timely basis because of high demand or other factors; 21 Table of Contents • the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft; • the issuance by Chilean or other aviation authorities of other directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Airbus or Boeing aircraft, or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; • the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other negative publicity; or • delays between the time we realize the need for new aircraft and the time it takes us to arrange for Airbus and Boeing or from a third-party provider to deliver this aircraft. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could restrict our ability to use aircraft to generate profits, respond to increased demands, or could otherwise limit our operations and adversely affect our business. We are often affected by certain factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, which can affect our operations. Revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of flight departures and arrivals. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, some or all of our flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed, reducing our revenues. Losses and liabilities in the event of an accident involving one or more of our aircraft could materially affect our business. We are exposed to potential catastrophic losses in the event of an aircraft accident, terrorist incident or any other similar event. There can be no assurance that, as a result of an aircraft accident or significant incident: • we will not need to increase our insurance coverage; • our insurance premiums will not increase significantly; • our insurance coverage will fully cover all of our liability; or • we will not be forced to bear substantial losses. Substantial claims resulting from an accident or significant incident in excess of our related insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could cause the negative public perception that our aircraft are less safe or reliable than those operated by other airlines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or incident affecting one of our airline affiliates or alliance partners or affecting other airlines. High levels of competition in the airline industry may adversely affect our level of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by high levels of competition within the industry, particularly the entrance of new competitors into the markets in which we operate. Airlines compete primarily over fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, brand recognition, passenger amenities (such as frequent flyer programs) and the availability and convenience of other passenger or cargo services. New and existing airlines could enter our markets and compete with us on any of these bases. Several of our competitors are larger than us and have greater brand recognition and greater resources than we do. Competing carriers include investor-owned, government-subsidized and national flag carriers of foreign countries as well as low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. The U.S. -Chile and other open skies agreements may subject us to 22 Table of Contents further competition from international carriers. In addition to traditional competition among airline companies, we face competition from companies that provide ground transportation, especially in our domestic cargo and passenger businesses, as well as sea transportation for our cargo business. Competition could reduce our passenger traffic and cargo demand, forcing us to reduce our fare levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and level of operations. Chile may open its domestic aviation industry to foreign airlines without restrictions, which may change the competitive landscape of the domestic Chilean aviation sector and affect our business and results of operations Currently, Chilean laws and regulations permit foreign airlines to operate domestic flights in Chile. Nevertheless, the rules currently prevent foreign-based carriers from flying within Chile without setting up a Chilean subsidiary first. There are currently no foreign airlines participating in the Chilean domestic market. However, on January 18, 2012, both the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Economics of Chile announced steps towards unilaterally opening the Chilean domestic skies in the near term. Chilean Domestic Unilateral Open Skies Rule may change the competitive landscape of the Domestic Chilean Aviation Sector, as it will be easier for foreign companies in the future to freely operate in the Chilean territory, which may subject us to further competition. Competition from international carriers in the Chilean market may affect the competitive dynamics of our industry by reducing our passenger traffic and cargo demands, forcing us to reduce our fare levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and level of operations. Some of our competitors may receive external support which could negatively impact our competitive position. Some of our competitors may receive support from external sources, such as their national governments, which may be unavailable to us. Support may include, among others, subsidies, financial aid or tax waivers. This support could place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. If we are unable to incorporate leased aircraft into our fleet at acceptable rates and terms in the future, our business could be adversely affected. A large portion of our aircraft are subject to long-term operating leases. Our operating leases typically run from three to twelve years from the date of delivery. We may face more competition for, or a limited supply of, leased aircraft, making it difficult for us to negotiate on competitive terms upon expiration of our current operating leases or to lease additional capacity required for our targeted level of operations. If we are forced to pay higher lease rates in the future to maintain our capacity and the number of aircraft in our fleet, our profitability could be adversely affected. We are incorporating various new technologies and equipment and their phase-in may have a negative impact on our service and operating standards. In recent years we have decided to incorporate a number of new aircraft, equipment and systems. The decision to incorporate these new elements has been based on their potential to enhance customer satisfaction, increase efficiency and/or streamline processes. However, the phase-in of these elements may temporarily result in lower service and operating standards, which could affect how our customers perceive us and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to meet our significant future financing requirements. We require significant amounts of financing to meet our aircraft capital requirements and may require additional financing to fund our other business needs. We cannot guarantee that we will have access to or be able to arrange for financing in the future on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain financing for a significant portion of our capital requirements, our ability to acquire new aircraft or to expand operations could be impaired and our business negatively affected. 23 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by our high degree of debt and aircraft lease obligations compared to our equity capital. We have a high degree of debt and payment obligations under our aircraft operating leases compared to equity capital. In order to finance our debt, we depend in part on our cash flow from operations. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to meet our payment obligations. In addition, the majority of our property and equipment is subject to liens securing our indebtedness. In the event that we fail to make payments on the secured indebtedness, creditors’ enforcement of liens could limit or end our ability to use the affected property and equipment to fulfill our operational needs and thus generate revenue. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Major events affecting the aviation insurance industry (such as terrorist attacks, hijackings or airline crashes) may result in significant increases of the airlines’ insurance premium or in significant decreases of insurance coverage, as it happened after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Problems with air traffic control systems or other technical failures could interrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations, including our ability to deliver customer service, are dependent on the effective operation of our equipment, including our aircraft, maintenance systems and reservation systems. Our operations are also dependent on the effective operation of domestic and international air traffic control systems and the air traffic control infrastructure in the markets in which we operate. Equipment failures, personnel shortages, air traffic control problems and other factors that could interrupt operations could adversely affect our operations and financial results as well as our reputation. Our financial success depends on the availability and performance of key personnel, who are not subject to non-competition restrictions. Our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our senior management team and key personnel to operate and manage our business effectively. Our employment agreements with key personnel do not contain any non-competition provisions applicable upon termination. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. If we lose any executive officer, senior manager or other key employee and are not able to obtain an adequate replacement, or if we are unable to attract and retain new qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may experience adverse consequences if we are unable to reach satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with our unionized employees. Approximately 49% of our employees, including administrative personnel, cabin crews, flight attendants, pilots and maintenance technicians are members of unions and have contracts and collective bargaining agreements which expire on a regular basis. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a failure to reach agreement with any labor union representing such employees or by an agreement with a labor union that contains terms that are not in line with our expectations or that prevent us from competing effectively with other airlines. Pressure by employees could cause operating disruptions and negatively impact our business. Certain employee groups such as pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and our airport personnel have highly specialized skills. As a consequence, actions by these groups, such as strikes, walk-outs or stoppages, could severely disrupt our operations and negatively impact our operating and financial performance, as well as how our customers perceive us. 24 Table of Contents For example, during the third quarter of 2001, members of one of our pilot unions implemented a series of actions that disrupted our services prior to the negotiation of their collective bargaining agreement, which had a negative impact on our operations and our profitability. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating costs, could directly impact our earnings. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs (19.6% in 2011), and at times in our operating history we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. A significant increase in our labor costs above the assumed costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive. We employ a large number of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. The airline industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we may, from time to time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to continue our current operations or replace departing employees. A failure to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely affect our business and reputation. Our operations are covered by environmental regulations at local, national and international levels. These regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the atmosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, aircraft noise and other activities incident to our business. Future operations and financial results may vary as a result of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including adverse effects on our reputation. Risks Related to Chile and Other Emerging Market Countries Developments in Latin American countries and other emerging market countries may adversely affect the Chilean economy, negatively impact our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common shares and ADSs to decrease. We conduct a significant portion of our operations in emerging market countries, particularly in Latin America. As a result, economic and political developments in these countries, including future economic crises and political instability, could impact the Chilean economy or the market value of our securities and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Beginning late 2008, and continuing during 2009, many of the countries we serve, including Chile, experienced economic slowdowns or recessions, which resulted in a substantial weakening of demand. Although economic conditions in other emerging market countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile, we cannot assure that events in other countries, particularly other emerging market countries, will not adversely affect the market value of, or market for, our common shares or ADSs. Fluctuations in the value of the Chilean peso and other currencies in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Changes in the exchange rate between the Chilean peso and the U.S. dollar or other currencies in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in numerous countries and face the risk of variation in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar or between the currencies of these various countries. Approximately 99% of our indebtedness at December 31, 2011 is 25 Table of Contents denominated in U.S. dollars, 22% of our revenues and 47% of our operating expenses in 2011 were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, mainly the Chilean peso. If the value of the peso, or of other currencies in which revenues are denominated, declines against the U.S. dollar, we will need more pesos or other local currency to repay the same amount of U.S. dollars. The Chilean peso has experienced volatility in recent years, including an average nominal depreciation of 1.3% against the U.S. dollar in 2008, an average nominal depreciation of 4.7% against the U.S. dollar in 2009 and an average nominal appreciation of 4.6% against the U.S. dollar in 2010. The exchange rate of the Chilean peso and other currencies against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate significantly in the future. Changes in Chilean and other governmental economic policies affecting foreign exchange rates could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the return to our shareholders on their common shares or ADSs. Exchange controls in Venezuela delay our ability to repatriate cash generated from operations in Venezuela. They also increase our exposure to exchange rate losses due to potential devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar vis à vis the U.S. dollar during the period of time between the time we are paid in Venezuelan bolivares and the time we are able to repatriate such revenues in U.S. dollars. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Year ended December 31, 2011 compared to year ended December 31, 2010—Cost of Sales” and “—Year ended December 31, 2010 compared to year ended December 31, 2009—Cost of Sales”. We are not required to disclose as much information to investors as a U.S. issuer is required to disclose and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you would receive from a comparable U.S. company. The corporate disclosure requirements that apply to us may not be equivalent to the disclosure requirements that apply to a U.S. company and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you would receive from a comparable U.S. company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. The disclosure requirements applicable to foreign issuers under the Exchange Act are more limited than the disclosure requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. Publicly available information about issuers of securities listed on Chilean stock exchanges also provides less detail in certain respects than the information regularly published by listed companies in the United States or in certain other countries. Furthermore, there is a lower level of regulation of the Chilean securities markets and of the activities of investors in such markets as compared with the level of regulation of the securities markets in the United States and in certain other developed countries. Risks Related to our Common Shares and ADSs Our controlling shareholders may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders. As of January 31, 2012 our controlling shareholders, beneficially owned 33.9% of our voting common shares. Controlling shareholders are in a position to elect four of the nine members of our board of directors and are in a position to direct our management. In addition, under the terms of the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if holders of ADSs do not provide JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as depositary for the ADSs, with timely instructions on the voting of the common shares underlying their ADRs, the depositary will be deemed to have been instructed to give a person designated by the board of directors the right to vote those common shares. Trading of our ADSs and common shares in the securities markets is limited and could experience further illiquidity and price volatility. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be materially affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying ADSs in the amount and at the price and time that you wish to do so may be substantially limited. This limited trading market may also increase the price volatility of the ADSs or the common shares underlying the ADSs. 26 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs may be adversely affected by currency devaluations and foreign exchange fluctuations. If the peso exchange rate falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions made thereon from the depositary could be adversely affected. Cash distributions made in respect of the ADSs are received by the depositary (represented by the custodian bank in Chile) in pesos, converted by the custodian bank into U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate and distributed by the depositary to the holders of the ADRs evidencing those ADSs. In addition, the depositary will incur foreign currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of the ADRs) in connection with the foreign currency conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments with respect to the ADSs. Future changes in Chilean foreign investment controls and withholding taxes could negatively affect non-Chilean residents that invest in our shares. Equity investments in Chile by non-Chilean residents have been subject in the past to various exchange control regulations that govern investment repatriation and earnings thereon. Although not currently in effect, regulations of the Central Bank of Chile have in the past required, and could again require, foreign investors acquiring securities in the secondary market in Chile to maintain a cash reserve or to pay a fee upon conversion of foreign currency to purchase such securities. Further, future changes in withholding taxes could negatively affect non-Chilean residents that invest in our shares. When we established our ADS facility as part of our initial public offering in 1997, there were foreign exchange controls in Chile. At that time, in order to allow the depositary and investors to be able to enter into foreign exchange transactions to repatriate from Chile amounts they received in connection with the deposited shares of common stock (including dividends and proceeds from the sale in Chile of the underlying shares of common stock and any rights with respect thereto), we entered into a foreign investment contract (the “Foreign Investment Contract”) with the Central Bank and the depositary. The Foreign Investment Contract guaranteed ADS investors and the depositary access to the Formal Exchange Market to convert amounts from Chilean pesos into U.S. dollars and to repatriate such amounts. In 2001, a new Compendium of Foreign Exchange Regulations (the “New Compendium”) removed exchange controls and many other barriers to investment. However, even though there are no longer foreign exchange controls in Chile, all foreign investment contracts (including the Foreign Investment Contract), continue to remain in full force. We cannot assure that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to the holders of ADRs, the disposition of the common shares underlying ADSs or the repatriation of the proceeds from an acquisition, a disposition or a dividend payment, will not be imposed or required in the future, nor could we make an assessment as to the duration or impact, were any such restrictions to be imposed or required. For further information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Chile”. Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain circumstances. The Chilean Corporation Law, provides that preemptive rights shall be granted to all shareholders whenever a company issues new shares for cash, giving such holders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. We will not be able to offer shares to holders of ADSs and shareholders located in the United States pursuant to the preemptive rights granted to shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”), is effective with respect to such rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. At the time of any rights offering, we will evaluate the potential costs and liabilities associated with any such registration statement in light of any indirect benefit to us of enabling U.S. holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs and shareholders located in the United States to exercise preemptive rights, as well as any other factors that may be considered appropriate at that time, and we will then make a decision as to whether we will file a registration statement. We cannot assure that we will decide to file a registration statement or that such rights will be available to ADS holders and shareholders located in the United States. 27 Table of Contents 