Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the adverse events described in this “Risk Factors” section or other sections of this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, the trading price, if any, of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business The securities and derivative litigation or the continuing SEC investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Subsequent to the announcement of the SEC investigation described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”, beginning in March 2003, 22 purported class action complaints were filed by holders of our securities against us, our directors, former directors, our executive officers, former executive officers, a subsidiary, and a former director of the subsidiary in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, alleging violations of the Securities Act of 1933 and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in connection with our underpayment of rebates owed to Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs, and certain transactions between us and the Benevolent Fund. These 22 complaints have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee. In addition, holders of our securities filed two class action complaints alleging violations of the Securities Act of 1933 in Tennessee state court. We removed these two cases to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee, where these two cases were consolidated with the other class actions. The district court has appointed lead plaintiffs in the consolidated action, and those lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint on October 21, 2003, alleging that we, through some of our executive officers, former executive officers, directors, and former directors, made false or misleading statements concerning our business, financial condition, and results of operations during periods beginning February 16, 1999 and continuing until March 10, 2003. Plaintiffs in the consolidated action have also named the underwriters of our November 2001 public offering as defendants. We and other defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint. On August 12, 2004, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee ruled on defendants’ motions to dismiss. The Court dismissed all claims as to Jones Pharma Incorporated, a predecessor to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc. (“King Research and Development”), and as to defendants Dennis Jones and Henry Richards. The Court also dismissed certain claims as to five other individual defendants. The Court denied the motions to dismiss in all other respects. Following the Court’s ruling, on September 20, 2004, we and the other remaining defendants filed answers to plaintiffs’ consolidated amended complaint. Discovery in this action has commenced. The Court has set a trial date of April 10, 2007. We have estimated a probable loss contingency for the class action lawsuit described above. We believe this loss contingency will be paid on behalf of us by our insurance carriers. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2005, we have recorded a liability and a receivable for this amount, classified in accrued expenses and prepaid and other current assets, respectively, in our consolidated financial statements. Beginning in March 2003, four purported shareholder derivative complaints were also filed in Tennessee state court alleging a breach of fiduciary duty, among other things, by some of our current and former officers and directors, with respect to the same events at issue in the federal securities litigation described above. These cases have been consolidated, and on October 3, 2003, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. On November 17, 2003, defendants filed a motion to dismiss or stay the consolidated amended complaint. The court denied the motion to dismiss, but granted a stay of proceedings. On October 11, 2004, the court lifted the stay to permit plaintiffs to file a further amended complaint adding class action claims related to our then-anticipated merger with Mylan Laboratories, Inc. 17 Table of Contents On October 26, 2004, defendants filed a partial answer to the further amended complaint, and moved to dismiss the newly-added claims. Following the termination of the Mylan merger agreement, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed these claims. Discovery with respect to the remaining claims in the case has commenced. No trial date has been set. Beginning in March 2003, three purported shareholder derivative complaints were likewise filed in Tennessee federal court, asserting claims similar to those alleged in the state derivative litigation. These cases have been consolidated, and on December 2, 2003 plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. On March 9, 2004, the court entered an order indefinitely staying these cases in favor of the state derivative action. In August 2004, a separate class action lawsuit was filed in Tennessee state court, asserting claims solely with respect to our then-anticipated merger with Mylan Laboratories. Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case on November 30, 2004, which remains pending. We believe that the claims in this case are moot following termination of the Mylan merger agreement. Additionally, a class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, which we refer to as “ERISA.” As amended, the complaint alleged that we and certain of our executive officers, former executive officers, directors, former directors and an employee violated fiduciary duties that they allegedly owed our 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan’s participants and beneficiaries under ERISA. The allegations underlying this action were similar in many respects to those in the class action litigation described above. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the ERISA action on March 5, 2004. The District Court Judge referred the motion to a Magistrate Judge for a report and recommendation. On December 8, 2004, the Magistrate Judge held a hearing on this motion, and, on December 10, 2004, he recommended that the District Court Judge dismiss the action. The District Court Judge accepted the recommendation and dismissed the case on February 4, 2005. The plaintiffs have not appealed this decision and the deadline for filing any appeal has now passed. The SEC investigation of our previously disclosed errors relating to reserves for product returns is continuing, and it is possible that this investigation could result in the SEC’s imposing fines or other sanctions on us. We are unable currently to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the range of potential loss, if any, except as noted above, in the pending litigation. If we were not to prevail in the pending litigation, or if any governmental sanctions are imposed in excess of those described above, neither of which we can predict or reasonably estimate at this time, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Responding to the SEC investigation and defending us in the pending litigation has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and the payment of additional professional fees. If we cannot successfully enforce our rights under the patents relating to three of our largest products, Altace®, Skelaxin® and Sonata®, and the patent relating to Adenoscan®, or if we are unable to secure or enforce our rights under other patents, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Cobalt Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cobalt”), a generic drug manufacturer located in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Altace®. The following U.S. patents are listed for Altace® in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, which is known as the “Orange Book”; United States Patent No. 5,061,722 (the “ ’722 patent”), a composition-of-matter patent, and United States Patent No. 5,403,856 (the “ ’856 patent”), a method-of-use patent, with expiration dates of October 2008 and April 2012, respectively. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, any generic manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification, known as a “Paragraph IV certification,” challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in the FDA’s Orange Book four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its 18 Table of Contents NDA. Cobalt filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity of the ’722 patent, and Aventis Pharma Deutschland GmbH (“Aventis”) and the Company filed suit on March 14, 2003, in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts to enforce our rights under that patent. Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, our filing of that suit provided us an automatic stay of FDA approval of Cobalt’s ANDA for 30 months from no earlier than February 5, 2003. That 30 month stay expired in August 2005 and on October 24, 2005, the FDA granted final approval of Cobalt’s ANDA. In March 2004, Cobalt stipulated to infringement of the ’722 patent. Subsequent to filing our original complaint, we amended our complaint to add an allegation of infringement of the ’856 patent. The ’856 patent covers one of Altace®’s three indications for use. In response to the amended complaint, Cobalt informed the FDA that it no longer seeks approval to market its proposed product for the indication covered by the ’856 patent. On this basis, the court granted Cobalt summary judgment of non-infringement of the ’856 patent. The court’s decision does not affect Cobalt’s infringement of the ’722 patent. On February 27, 2006, the Company, Aventis and Cobalt agreed that, subject to certain conditions, within 38 days, all parties will submit a joint stipulation dismissing without prejudice the litigation before the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts. Lupin Ltd. (“Lupin”) filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Altace® (“Lupin’s ANDA”). In addition to its ANDA, Lupin filed a Paragraph IV certification challenging the validity and infringement of the ’722 patent, and seeking to market its generic version of Altace® before expiration of the ’722 patent. In July 2005, we filed civil actions for infringement of the ’722 patent against Lupin in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Maryland and the Eastern District of Virginia. Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, the filing of the suit against Lupin provides us with an automatic stay of FDA approval of Lupin’s ANDA for up to 30 months from no earlier than June 8, 2005. On February 1, 2006, the Maryland and Virginia cases were consolidated into a single action in the Eastern District of Virginia. Trial is currently scheduled to begin in that action on June 6, 2006. We intend to vigorously enforce our rights under the ’722 and ’856 patents. If a generic version of Altace® enters the market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, we had net intangible assets related to Altace® of $239.5 million. If a generic version of Altace® enters the market, the Company may have to write off a portion or all of the patent intangible assets and the other intangible assets associated with this product. Eon Labs, Inc. (“Eon Labs”), CorePharma, LLC (“CorePharma”) and Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. (“Mutual”), Inc. have each filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Skelaxin® 400 mg tablets. Additionally, Eon Labs’ ANDA seeks permission to market a generic version of Skelaxin® 800 mg tablets. United States Patent Nos. 6,407,128 (the “128 patent”) and 6,683,102 (the “102 patent”), two method-of-use patents relating to Skelaxin®, are listed in the FDA’s Orange Book and 19 Table of Contents do not expire until December 3, 2021. Eon Labs and CorePharma have each filed Paragraph IV certifications against the ’128 patent and the ’102 patent alleging noninfringement and invalidity of these patents. Mutual has filed a Paragraph IV certification against the ’102 patent alleging noninfringement and invalidity of that patent. A patent infringement suit was filed against Eon Labs on January 2, 2003 in the District Court for the Eastern District of New York; against CorePharma on March 7, 2003 in the District Court for the District of New Jersey (subsequently transferred to the District Court for the Eastern District of New York); and against Mutual on March 12, 2004 in the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania concerning their proposed 400 mg products. Additionally, we filed a separate suit against Eon Labs on December 17, 2004, in the District Court for the Eastern District of New York concerning its proposed 800 mg product. Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, the filing of the suit against CorePharma provided us with an automatic stay of FDA approval of CorePharma’s ANDA for 30 months from no earlier than January 24, 2003. Also pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, the filing of the suits against Eon Labs provided us with an automatic stay of FDA approval of Eon Labs’ ANDA for its proposed 400 mg and 800 mg products for 30 months from no earlier than November 18, 2002 and November 3, 2004, respectively. We intend to vigorously enforce our rights under the ’128 and ’102 patents to the full extent of the law. On March 9, 2004, we received a copy of a letter from the FDA to all ANDA applicants for Skelaxin® stating that the use listed in the FDA’s Orange Book for the ’128 patent may be deleted from the ANDA applicants’ product labeling. We believe that this decision is arbitrary, capricious, and inconsistent with the FDA’s previous position on this issue. We filed a Citizen Petition on March 18, 2004 (supplemented on April 15, 2004 and on July 21, 2004), requesting the FDA to rescind that letter, require generic applicants to submit Paragraph IV certifications for the ’128 patent, and prohibit the removal of information corresponding to the use listed in the Orange Book. We concurrently filed a Petition for Stay of Action requesting the FDA to stay approval of any generic metaxalone products until the FDA has fully evaluated our Citizen Petition. On March 12, 2004, the FDA sent a letter to us explaining that our proposed labeling revision, which includes references to additional clinical studies relating to food, age, and gender effects, was approvable and only required certain formatting changes. On April 5, 2004, we submitted amended labeling text that incorporated those changes. On April 5, 2004, Mutual filed a Petition for Stay of Action requesting the FDA to stay approval of our proposed labeling revision until the FDA has fully evaluated and ruled upon our Citizen Petition, as well as all comments submitted in response to that petition. Discussions with the FDA concerning appropriate labeling are ongoing. CorePharma, Mutual and we have filed responses and supplements to the pending Citizen Petition. If our Citizen Petition is rejected, there is a substantial likelihood that a generic version of Skelaxin® will enter the market, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In an attempt to mitigate this risk, we have entered into an agreement with a generic pharmaceutical company to launch an authorized generic of Skelaxin® in the event of generic competition. However, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the degree to which this strategy will be successful, if at all. As of December 31, 2005, we had net intangible assets related to Skelaxin® of $170.4 million. If demand for Skelaxin® declines below current expectations, we may have to write off a portion or all of these intangible assets. Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Sicor”), a generic drug manufacturer located in Irvine California, filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Adenoscan®. U.S. Patent No. 5,070,877 (the “ ’877 patent”) is assigned to us and is listed in the FDA’s Orange Book entry for Adenoscan®. Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (“Astellas”) is the exclusive licensee of certain rights under the ’877 and has marketed Adenoscan® in the U.S. since 1995. A substantial portion of the revenues from our royalties segment is derived from Astellas from its net sales of Adenoscan®. Sicor has filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity of the ’877 patent and non-infringement of certain claims of the ’877 patent. We and Astellas filed suit against Sicor and its parents/affiliates Sicor, Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (“Teva”) and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., on May 26, 2005, in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware to enforce our rights under the ’877 patent. Pursuant to the Hatch- 20 Table of Contents Waxman Act, the filing of that suit provides us an automatic stay of FDA approval of Sicor’s ANDA for 30 months from no earlier than April 16, 2005. We do not expect trial to begin before February 2007. We intend to vigorously enforce our rights under the ’877 patent. If a generic version of Adenoscan® enters the market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Teva filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Sonata®. In addition to its ANDA, Teva filed a Paragraph IV certification challenging the validity and enforceability of U.S. Patent 4,626,538 (the “ ’538 patent”) listed in the Orange Book which expires in June 2008. We filed suit against Teva in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey to enforce our rights under the ’538 patent. Pursuant to the Hatch-Waxman Act, our filing of that suit provides us an automatic stay of FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA for 30 months from no earlier than June 21, 2005. We intend to vigorously enforce our rights under the ’538 patent. As of December 31, 2005, we had net intangible assets related to Sonata® of $12.9 million. If a generic form of Sonata® enters the market, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary patent protection for other of our products or for products and technologies we develop or license. In addition, our competitors may develop products similar to ours, including generic products, using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property protection, which could reduce our sales. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in order to maintain our competitive position. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and technology, or that we can adequately protect our trade secrets and technology. If we are unable to secure or enforce patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We have entered into agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products with whom we are presently engaged, or have been previously engaged in litigation, and these activities could subject us to claims that we have violated federal and/or state anti-trust laws. We have negotiated and entered into a number of agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products with whom we are presently engaged or have previously been engaged in litigation. Governmental and/or private parties may allege that these arrangements violate applicable state or federal anti-trust laws. If a court or other governmental body were to conclude that a violation of these laws had occurred, liability based on such a finding could be material and may adversely affect us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the terms and conditions of our corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. In October 2005, as part of our settlement of the government pricing investigation of our company (see Item 3. Legal Proceedings, below), we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS/ OIG”). The purpose of the CIA, which applies to all of our U.S. subsidiaries and employees, is to promote compliance with the federal health care and procurement programs in which we participate, including the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the Medicare Program, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and the Veterans Administration Pricing Program. In addition to the challenges associated with complying with the regulations applicable to each of these programs (as discussed below), we are required, among other things, to keep in place our current compliance program, provide specified training to employees, retain an independent review organization to 21 Table of Contents conduct periodic audits of our Medicaid Rebate and Medicare Average Sales Price calculations and our automated systems, processes, policies and practices related to government pricing calculations, and to provide periodic reports to HHS/ OIG. Implementing the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the CIA has resulted, and is expected to continue to result, in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and the payment of additional professional fees. Failing to meet the CIA obligations could have serious consequences for us including stipulated monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, flagrant or repeated violations of the CIA could result in our being excluded from participating in government health care programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the restatement of prior period financial statements. We previously restated our previously issued financial statements for the fiscal years 2002 and 2003, including interim periods in 2003, and the first two quarters of 2004. We may in the future be subject to class action suits, other litigation or regulatory proceedings or actions arising in relation to the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Any expenses incurred in connection with such a potential litigation or regulatory proceeding or action not covered by available insurance or any adverse resolution of this potential litigation or regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Further, any litigation or regulatory proceeding or action may be time-consuming and may distract our management from the conduct of our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued thereunder, management is required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of each year-end. We are also required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K a report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our registered public accounting firm also issues an audit report on management’s assessment and our internal control over financial reporting. Management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005 and that it provided reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that management will not identify one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting during 2006 or thereafter, that the steps we take to address any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses will be successful, that a significant deficiency or material weakness will not result in material errors in our financial statements before it is remediated, that management will be able to complete its assessment of internal control over financial reporting in a timely fashion in 2006 or thereafter, or that management will be able to conclude on the basis of its evaluation that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of 2006 or a later period. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including adapting this control to changing conditions and requirements, such a failure could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. If sales of our major products or royalty payments to us decrease, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Altace®, Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, Levoxyl®, Sonata® and royalty revenues for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2005 accounted for 31.3%, 19.4%, 12.4%, 7.9%, 4.7% and 4.4% of our total 22 Table of Contents revenues from continuing operations, respectively, or 80.1% in total. We believe that these sources of revenue may constitute a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. However, the agreements associated with some sources of royalty income may be terminated upon short notice and without cause or may be subject to substantial competition in the near future. Accordingly, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products or products for which we receive royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we have an obligation to indemnify our officers and directors, we may not have sufficient insurance coverage available for this purpose and may be forced to pay these indemnification costs directly. We may not be able to maintain existing levels of coverage, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. Our charter and bylaws require that we indemnify our directors and officers to the fullest extent provided by applicable Tennessee law. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers to fund such obligations, if our insurance carrier should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we would be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of this insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to increase or maintain our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. We are required annually, or on an interim basis as needed, to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. If events such as generic competition or inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient supply of product occur that cause the sales of our products to decline, the intangible asset value of any declining product could become impaired. As of December 31, 2005, we had $1.1 billion of net intangible assets and goodwill. Intangible assets primarily include the net book value of various product rights, trademarks, patents and other intangible rights. If a change in circumstances causes us to lower our future sales forecast for a product, we may be required to write off a portion of the net book value of the intangible assets associated with that product. Any impairment of the net book value of any product or combination of products, depending on the size of the product or products, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we estimate the fair value of our individual business reporting units on a discounted cash flow basis. In the event the value of an individual business reporting unit declines significantly, it could result in a non-cash impairment charge. If we cannot implement our strategy to grow our business through increased sales, acquisitions, development and in-licensing, our business or competitive position in the pharmaceutical industry may suffer. Our current strategy is to increase sales of our existing products and to enhance our competitive standing through acquisitions or in-licensing of products, either in development or previously approved by the FDA, that complement our business and enable us to promote and sell new products through existing marketing and distribution channels. Moreover, since we engage in limited proprietary research activity with respect to the development of new chemical entities, we rely heavily on purchasing or licensing products in development and FDA-approved products from other companies. We are engaged in the development and licensing of new products. For example, we are engaged in the development of: • Remoxytm, an investigational drug for the treatment of severe to chronic pain; • binodenoson, a myocardial pharmacologic stress imaging agent; 23 Table of Contents • PT-141, an investigational new drug for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction; • T-62, an investigational drug for the treatment of neuropathic pain; • MRE0094, an investigational drug for the topical treatment of chronic diabetic foot ulcers; • a new inhaler for Intal® using the alternative propellant HFA for which the FDA has issued an approvable letter; • a potential new formulation of metaxalone; • a novel formulation of ramipril for which an NDA is pending; • an Altace®/diuretic combination product; and • Vanquixtm, a diazepam-filled auto-injector. We compete with other pharmaceutical companies, including large pharmaceutical companies with financial, human and other resources substantially greater than ours, in the development and licensing of new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to • engage in product life-cycle management to develop new indications and line extensions for existing and acquired products, • successfully develop, license or commercialize new products on a timely basis or at all, • continue to develop products already in development in a cost effective manner, or • obtain any FDA approvals necessary to successfully implement the strategies described above. If we are not successful in the development or licensing of new products already in development, including the failure to obtain any necessary FDA approval, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, other companies may license or develop products or may acquire technologies for the development of products that are the same as or similar to the products we have in development or that we license. Because there is rapid technological change in the industry and because many other companies may have more financial resources than we do, other companies may • develop or license their products more rapidly than we can, • complete any applicable regulatory approval process sooner than we can, • market or license their products before we can market or license our products, or • offer their newly developed or licensed products at prices lower than our prices, and thereby have a negative impact on the sales of our existing, newly developed or licensed products. The inability to effect acquisitions or licenses of additional branded products in development and FDA-approved products could limit the overall growth of our business. Furthermore, even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product or acquire a company, we may not be able to generate sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. Technological developments or the FDA’s approval of new products or of new therapeutic indications for existing products may make our existing products or those products we are licensing or developing obsolete or may make them more difficult to market successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot integrate the business of companies or products we acquire, or appropriately and successfully manage and coordinate third-party collaborative development activities, our business may suffer. The integration of acquisitions into our business of in-licensed or acquired assets or businesses, as well as the coordination and collaboration of development, sales and marketing efforts with third parties, 24 Table of Contents requires significant management attention and may require the further expansion of our support personnel, sales force and other human resources. In order to manage our in-license and acquisition activity effectively, we must maintain adequate operational, financial and management information systems, integrate the systems that we acquire into our existing systems, and ensure that the acquired systems meet our standards for internal control over financial reporting. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to manage expanded operations efficiently and in accordance with applicable regulatory standards. If we cannot manage our third-party collaborations and integrate in-licensed and acquired assets successfully, or, if we do not establish and maintain an appropriate administrative, support and control infrastructure to support these activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on our ability to make the necessary certifications with respect to our internal controls. We do not have proprietary protection for most of our branded pharmaceutical products, and our sales could suffer from competition by generic substitutes. Although most of our revenue is generated by products not subject to competition from generic products, there is no proprietary protection for most of our branded pharmaceutical products, and generic substitutes for many of these products are sold by other pharmaceutical companies. Even our products that currently have no generic substitute could face generic competition if generics are developed by other companies and approved by the FDA. The entry of generic substitutes for any of our products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, governmental and other pressure to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians prescribing products for which there are generic substitutes. Also, our branded products for which there is no generic form available may face competition from different therapeutic agents used for the same indications for which our branded products are used. Increased competition from the sale of generic pharmaceutical products or from different therapeutic agents used for the same indications for which our branded products are used may cause a decrease in revenue from our branded products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot sell our products in amounts greater than our minimum purchase requirements under some of our supply agreements or sell our products in accordance with our forecasts, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Some of our supply agreements or purchase orders, including those related to Altace® and Skelaxin®, require us to purchase certain minimum levels of active ingredients or finished goods. If we are unable to maintain market exclusivity for our products, if our product life-cycle management is not successful, if we fail to sell our products in accordance with the forecasts we develop as required by our supply agreements or if we do not terminate supply agreements at times that are optimal for us, we may incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under the supply agreements or purchase orders. In the event we incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under our supply agreements or purchase orders, there may be a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we purchase raw materials and some of our finished goods based on our forecast for sales of our products. We also manufacture many of our finished goods based on these forecasts. If we do not meet expected forecasts for sales, we could purchase inventory quantities in excess of expected demand. This purchase of excess inventory could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Any significant delays or difficulties in the manufacture of, or supply of materials for, our products may reduce our profit margins and revenues, limit the sales of our products, or harm our products’ reputations. We manufacture many of our products in facilities we own and operate. These products include Altace®, Thrombin-JMI® and Levoxyl®, which together represented approximately 51.6% of our revenues for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2005. Many of our production processes are complex and 25 Table of Contents require specialized and expensive equipment. If we are not in compliance with applicable regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed, halted or otherwise adversely affected. Any unforeseen delays or interruptions in our manufacturing operations may reduce our profit margins and revenues. In the event of an interruption, we may not be able to distribute our products as planned. Furthermore, growing demand for our products could exceed our ability to supply the demand. If such situations occur, it may be necessary for us to seek alternative manufacturers, which could adversely impact our ability to produce and distribute our products. We cannot assure you that we would be able to arrange for third parties to manufacture our products in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our manufacturing output may be interrupted by power outages, supply shortages, accidents, natural disasters or other disruptions. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Many of our product lines, including Altace®, Skelaxin®, Sonata®, Intal®, Tilade®, Synercid® and Cortisporin®, are currently manufactured in part or entirely by third parties. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely effect our profit margins or may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. For example, if any of these third parties are not in compliance with applicable regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed, halted or otherwise adversely affected. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute our products as planned. If we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers in producing or packaging our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products would be adversely affected, and we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or abandon or sell product lines on unsatisfactory terms. We might not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. We also cannot assure you that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. We have begun construction of facilities to produce Bicillin® at our Rochester, Michigan location. The third-party manufacturer that produced Bicillin® for us closed its plant. If our inventory of Bicillin® is not sufficient to sustain demand during the period we are constructing our Bicillin® manufacturing facility, or if we experience delays in obtaining regulatory authorizations or experience production difficulties at our Bicillin® manufacturing facility, sales of this product may be reduced or the market for the product may be permanently diminished, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net sales of Bicillin® were $54.0 million, representing 3.0% of our total revenues. We are also in the process of transferring the manufacture of some of our other products that are currently manufactured by third parties to our manufacturing facilities. We expect to complete these transfers prior to the expiration of the agreements concerning supply of these products. However, we cannot assure you that we will complete the transfers prior to the expiration of the supply agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and third parties with whom we contract require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package our pharmaceutical products. Currently, we and our third-party manufacturers rely on over 500 suppliers to deliver the necessary raw materials and components. Some of our contracts for the supply of raw materials have short durations, and there is no assurance that we will be able to secure extension of the terms of such agreements. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to distribute our products as planned. The occurrence of any of these events could result in significant backorders for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could adversely affect our market share for the products and the reputation of our products. 26 Table of Contents If third-party developers of some of our new product candidates and reformulated products fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard or otherwise fails to comply with the terms of their agreements with us, or if we mismanage the development process, the introduction of new or reformulated products may not be successful. We develop and manage the development of products and product line extensions through research and development and through contractual relationships with third parties that develop new products, including new product formulations, on our behalf. Our reliance on third parties for the development of some of our products exposes us to risks which could cause delays in the development of new products or reformulated products or could cause other problems beyond our control. These third-party developers • may not be successful in developing the products or product line extensions for us, • may face financial or business related difficulties which could make it difficult or impossible for them to continue business operations, or • may otherwise breach or terminate their agreements with us. If any of these events occur, or we mismanage these processes or the third parties who perform services on our behalf, and we are unable to successfully develop these products and new product formulations by other means, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We are near maximum capacity at our Middleton, Wisconsin facility, which limits our ability to increase production of Thrombin-JMI®. We are currently working to expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI®. We cannot assure you that our plans to expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI® will be successful and/or timely. If we cannot successfully and timely expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI®, our ability to increase production of Thrombin-JMI® will be limited, thereby limiting our unit sales growth for this product. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term profitability. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenue, may vary from quarter to quarter due to many factors. Sales to wholesalers and distributors represent a substantial portion of our total sales. Buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors may vary from time to time. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase, many of our customers may order pharmaceutical products in larger than normal quantities. The ordering of excess quantities in any quarter could cause sales of some of our branded pharmaceutical products to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. As part of our ongoing efforts to facilitate improved management of wholesale inventory levels of our branded pharmaceutical products, we have entered into inventory management and data services agreements with each of our three key wholesale customers. These agreements provide wholesalers incentives to manage inventory levels and provide timely and accurate data with respect to inventory levels held, and valuable data regarding sales and marketplace activity. We rely on the timeliness and accuracy of the data that each customer provides to us on a regular basis pursuant to these agreements. If our wholesalers fail to provide us with timely and accurate data in accordance with the agreements, our estimates for certain reserves included in our financial statements could be materially and adversely affected. Other factors that may affect quarterly results include expenditures related to the acquisition, sale and promotion of pharmaceutical products, a changing customer base, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, new products introduced by us or our competitors, the mix of products we sell, sales and marketing expenditures, product recalls, competitive pricing pressures and general economic and industry conditions that may affect customer demand. We 27 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our profitability or avoiding losses in any future period. The insolvency of any of our principal customers, who are wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Similar to other pharmaceutical companies, our principal customers are primarily wholesale pharmaceutical distributors. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has in recent years been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased our, and other industry participants’, customer concentration. Accordingly, three key customers accounted for approximately 69% of our revenues and a significant portion of our accounts receivable for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The insolvency of any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our wholly owned subsidiary, King Research and Development, successor to Jones Pharma Incorporated, is a defendant in litigation which is currently being handled by its insurance carriers. Should this coverage be inadequate or subsequently denied or were we to lose some of these lawsuits, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our wholly owned subsidiary, King Research and Development, successor to Jones Pharma Incorporated, is a defendant in 143 multi-defendant lawsuits involving the manufacture and sale of dexfenfluramine, fenfluramine and phentermine, which is usually referred to as “fen/phen.” In 1996, Jones acted as a distributor of Obenix®, a branded phentermine product. Jones also distributed a generic phentermine product. We believe that Jones’ phentermine products have been identified in less than 100 of the foregoing cases. The plaintiffs in these cases claim injury as a result of ingesting a combination of these weight-loss drugs. They seek compensatory and punitive damages as well as medical care and court-supervised medical monitoring. The plaintiffs claim liability based on a variety of theories including, but not limited to, product liability, strict liability, negligence, breach of warranties and misrepresentation. These suits are filed in various jurisdictions throughout the United States, and in each of these suits King Research and Development is one of many defendants, including manufacturers and other distributors of these drugs. King Research and Development denies any liability incident to the distribution of Jones’ phentermine products and intends to pursue all defenses available to it. King Research and Development has tendered defense of these lawsuits to its insurance carriers for handling and they are currently defending King Research and Development in these suits. In the event that insurance coverage is inadequate to satisfy any resulting liability, King Research and Development will have to resume defense of these lawsuits and be responsible for the damages, if any, that are awarded against it. Sales of Thrombin-JMI® may be affected by the perception of risks associated with some of the raw materials used in its manufacture; if we are unable to successfully develop purification procedures at our facilities that are in accordance with the FDA’s expectations for biological products generally, the FDA could limit our ability to manufacture biological products at those facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our product Thrombin-JMI® accounted for 12.4% of our total revenues from continuing operations. The source material for Thrombin-JMI® comes from bovine plasma and lung tissue which has been certified by the United States Department of Agriculture for use in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. Bovine-sourced materials, particularly those from outside the United States, may be of some concern because of potential transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or “BSE.” However, we have taken precautions to minimize the risks of contamination from BSE in our source materials. Our principal precaution is the use of bovine materials only from FDA-approved sources in the United States. Accordingly, all source animals used in our production of Thrombin-JMI® are of United States origin. Additionally, source animals used in production of Thrombin-JMI® are generally less than 18 months of age (BSE has not been identified in animals less than 30 months of age). 28 Table of Contents We have two approved vendors as sources of supply of the bovine raw materials. Any interruption or delay in the supply of these materials could adversely affect the sales of Thrombin-JMI®. In addition to other actions taken by us and our vendors to minimize the risk of BSE, we are developing steps to further purify the material of other potential contaminants. We will continue surveillance of the source and believe that the risk of BSE contamination in the source materials for Thrombin-JMI® is very low. While we believe that our procedures and those of our vendor for the supply, testing and handling of the bovine material comply with all federal, state, and local regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. There are high levels of global public concern about BSE. Physicians could determine not to administer Thrombin-JMI® because of the perceived risk, which could adversely affect our sales of the product. Any injuries resulting from BSE contamination could expose us to extensive liability. Also, there is currently no alternative to the bovine-sourced materials for Thrombin-JMI®. If public concern for the risk of BSE infection in the United States should increase, the manufacture and sale of Thrombin-JMI® and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The FDA expects manufacturers of biological products to have validated processes capable of removing extraneous viral contaminants to a high level of assurance. As a result, many manufacturers of biologics are currently engaged in developing procedures to remove potential extraneous viral contaminants from their products. We are in the process of developing appropriate processing steps to achieve maximum assurance for the removal of potential extraneous viral contaminants from Thrombin-JMI®, which does not include BSE because it is not a viral contaminant. If we are not successful in gaining FDA approval for these processes, our ability to manufacture Thrombin-JMI® may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. Failure to obtain the FDA’s approval for these procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On November 15, 2006, we may be required to repurchase our 23/4% Convertible Debentures due November 15, 2021, or we may elect to repurchase them sooner. During the fourth quarter of 2001, we issued 23/4% Convertible Debentures due November 15, 2021 in an aggregate amount of $345.0 million. The price at which the debentures are convertible into common stock is $50.16, subject to adjustments spelled out in the documents governing the debentures. If the price of our stock has not reached that amount by November 15, 2006 and the debentures are not refinanced or repurchased, we may be required to repurchase all or a portion of the debentures representing the $345.0 million on November 15, 2006 if some or all of the holders of the debentures request that we repurchase their debentures. Alternatively, we may elect to repurchase some or all of the debentures, by negotiation with debenture holders, a buy-back program, or a tender offer, prior to November 15, 2006. We cannot assure you that a significant repurchase would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity. A failure by Dey, L.P. to successfully market the EpiPen® auto-injector, or an increase in competition, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Dey, L.P. markets our EpiPen® auto-injector through a supply agreement with us that expires on December 31, 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, we grant Dey the exclusive right and license to market, distribute and sell EpiPen® worldwide. We understand that a new competitive product received FDA approval and entered the market in the third quarter of 2005. The new product, TwinJect® Auto-Injector (epinephrine) injection, is not a therapeutically equivalent product but has the same indications, same usage and the same route of delivery as EpiPen®. Users of EpiPen® would have to obtain a new prescription in order to substitute TwinJect®. The supply agreement with Dey includes minimum purchase requirements that are less than Dey’s purchases in recent years. A failure by Dey to successfully market and distribute EpiPen® or an increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents Our relationships with the U.S. Department of Defense and other government entities are subject to risks associated with doing business with the government. All U.S. government contracts provide that they may be terminated for the convenience of the government as well as for default. Our Meridian Medical Technologies segment has pharmaceutical products that are presently sold primarily to the DoD under an Industrial Base Maintenance Contract (“IBMC”). The current IBMC expires in July 2006. Although we have reason to believe the DoD will renew the IBMC based on our relationship of many years, we cannot assure you that they will. In the event the DoD does not renew the IBMC, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the unexpected termination of one or more of our significant government contracts could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A surge capability provision allows for the coverage of defense mobilization requirements in the event of rapid military deployment. If this surge capability provision becomes operative, we may be required to devote more of our Meridian Medical Technologies segment manufacturing capacity to the production of products for the government which could result in less manufacturing capacity being devoted to products in this segment with higher profit margins. Our supply contracts with the DoD are subject to post-award audit and potential price determination. These audits may include a review of our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Therefore, a post-award audit or price redetermination could result in an adjustment to our revenues. From time to time the DoD makes claims for pricing adjustments with respect to completed contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Other risks involved in government sales include the unpredictability in funding for various government programs and the risks associated with changes in procurement policies and priorities. Reductions in defense budgets may result in reductions in our revenues. We also provide our nerve agent antidote auto-injectors to a number of state agencies and local communities for homeland defense against chemical agent terrorist attacks. Changes in governmental and agency procurement policies and priorities may also result in a reduction in government funding for programs involving our auto-injectors. A loss in government funding of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medicaid reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and in certain respects ambiguous. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Since 2003, we have implemented new information technology systems that are intended to significantly enhance the accuracy of our calculations for estimating amounts due under Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs; however, our processes for these calculations and the judgments involved in making these calculations will continue to involve subjective decisions, and, as a result, these calculations will remain subject to the risk of errors. If our operations were disrupted by a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, our business could be harmed. A natural disaster, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could result in a significant interruption of our normal business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. 30 Table of Contents For example, for efficiency, we rely upon a central distribution facility, located in Bristol, Tennessee. An interruption in operations at this facility could limit our ability to deliver our products to customers. Similarly, our business depends upon centralized electronic communication, analysis and recordkeeping systems. Damage to these systems could limit the normal operation of many aspects of our business, such as receipt and processing of orders, shipment of products to customers, internal communications and maintenance of financial and other records. If we are unable to obtain approval of new HFA propellants for Intal® and Tilade®, our sales of these products could be adversely affected. Under government regulations, chlorofluorocarbon compounds are being phased out because of environmental concerns. Our products Intal® and Tilade® currently use these compounds as propellants. The FDA has issued an approvable letter with respect to the new drug application, or “NDA” covering a new inhaler for Intal® using the alternative propellant HFA. The approvable letter provides that final approval of the NDA for Intal® HFA is subject to addressing certain FDA comments solely pertaining to the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls section of the NDA covering the product. In the event we cannot also obtain final approval for alternative propellants for Intal® and Tilade® before the final phase-out date for use of chlorofluorocarbon compounds or if we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of chlorofluorocarbon compounds for the production of these products prior to this date, our ability to market these products could be materially adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are risks associated with either the continuation or termination of our agreement with Wyeth to co-promote Altace®. Our revenues depend significantly upon the sale of Altace®. We have a Co-Promotion Agreement with Wyeth pursuant to which each company markets Altace® and shares in the revenues generated by its sale. The future success of this collaboration is uncertain. Factors that may affect the success of our collaboration with Wyeth include the following: • Wyeth may pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on its own or in collaboration with others, that may compete with Altace® or which could affect Wyeth’s commitment to the collaboration; • Wyeth may pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its marketing programs, which could also affect its commitment to the collaboration; and • Wyeth may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of Altace®. Our Co-Promotion Agreement with Wyeth results in our having less control over the promotion of Altace® than we would have in the absence of the Agreement. Further, we believe that we presently realize less operating income from the sale of Altace® than we would realize if the Agreement were terminated. Because of these factors, among others, as well as contractual disputes existing between Wyeth and us, we have sought, and may continue to seek, the termination of the Agreement. Should Wyeth reduce the resources dedicated to the marketing of Altace®, or should the Co-Promotion Agreement be terminated, then we may need to expand our marketing capabilities, or enter into another collaborative arrangement, to ensure that appropriate sales and marketing resources are devoted to Altace®. Such efforts would require substantial time, effort and resources, and we may not be able to recruit and retain appropriate sales and marketing resources or enter into another collaborative arrangement. Any significant reduction in the sales and marketing resources devoted to Altace® could have a material adverse effect on sales of Altace® and on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. The loss of our key personnel or an inability to attract new personnel could harm our business. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management staff, the loss of whose services might impede the achievement of our strategic objectives. We cannot assure you that we will be 31 Table of Contents able to attract and retain key personnel in sufficient numbers, or on acceptable terms, or with the skills which are necessary to support our growth and integration activities. The loss of the services of key personnel or the failure to attract such personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Our shareholder rights plan, charter and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include • a classified Board of Directors; • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Tennessee laws, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our common stock is volatile. The stock market in general and the market for the securities of emerging pharmaceutical companies such as King, in particular, have experienced extreme volatility. Many factors contribute to this volatility, including • variations in our results of operations; • perceived risks and uncertainties concerning our business; • announcements of earnings; • developments in the governmental investigations or securities litigation; • the commencement of, or adverse developments in, any material litigation; • failure to meet or exceed our own projections for revenue, product sales and earnings per share; • failure to meet timelines for product development or other projections or forward-looking statements we may make to the public; • failure to meet or exceed security analysts’ financial projections for our company; • comments or recommendations made by securities analysts; • general market conditions; • perceptions about market conditions in the pharmaceutical industry; • announcements of technological innovations or the results of clinical trials or studies; • changes in marketing, product pricing and sales strategies or development of new products by us or our competitors; • changes in domestic or foreign governmental regulations or regulatory approval processes; and • announcements concerning regulatory compliance and government agency reviews. 32 Table of Contents The volatility of our common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on our shareholders than would a less volatile stock. In addition, such volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a shareholder’s holdings of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure to comply with laws and government regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Virtually all aspects of our activities are regulated by federal and state statutes and government agencies. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, which we refer to as the “DEA,” the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA,”), as well as by foreign governments in countries where we distribute some of our products. Noncompliance with applicable FDA policies or requirements could subject us to enforcement actions, such as suspensions of manufacturing or distribution, seizure of products, product recalls, fines, criminal penalties, injunctions, failure to approve pending drug product applications or withdrawal of product marketing approvals. Similar civil or criminal penalties could be imposed by other government agencies, such as the DEA, the EPA or various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are manufactured, sold or distributed, and could have ramifications for our contracts with government agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense. These enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. All manufacturers of human pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”), or the Public Health Service Act (the “PHS Act”), or both. New drugs, as defined in the FDC Act, and new human biological drugs, as defined in the PHS Act, must be the subject of an FDA-approved new drug or biologic license application before they may be marketed in the United States. Some prescription and other drugs are not the subject of an approved marketing application but, rather, are marketed subject to the FDA’s regulatory discretion and/or enforcement policies. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement discretion and/or policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We manufacture some pharmaceutical products containing controlled substances and, therefore, are also subject to statutes and regulations enforced by the DEA and similar state agencies which impose security, record keeping, reporting and personnel requirements on us. Additionally, we manufacture biological drug products for human use and are subject to regulatory obligations as a result of these aspects of our business. There are additional FDA and other regulatory policies and requirements covering issues, such as advertising, commercially distributing, selling, sampling and reporting adverse events associated with our products, with which we must continuously comply. Noncompliance with any of these policies or requirements could result in enforcement actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The FDA has the authority and discretion to withdraw existing marketing approvals and to review the regulatory status of marketed products at any time. For example, the FDA may require an approved marketing application for any drug product marketed if new information reveals questions about a drug’s safety or efficacy. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices and drug products subject to an approved application must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the approved application. While we believe that all of our currently marketed pharmaceutical products comply with FDA enforcement policies, have approval pending or have received the requisite agency approvals, our marketing 33 Table of Contents is subject to challenge by the FDA at any time. Through various enforcement mechanisms, the FDA can ensure that noncomplying drugs are no longer marketed and that advertising and marketing materials and campaigns are in compliance with FDA regulations. In addition, modifications, enhancements, or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy FDA review process. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers are continually subject to inspection by governmental agencies. Manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in any of those facilities if a government or regulatory authority is unsatisfied with the results of an inspection. Any interruptions of this type could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, which we refer to as “CERCLA,” the EPA can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of contaminated properties upon each or any of the current and former site owners, site operators or parties who sent waste to the site, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. In addition, many states, including Tennessee, Michigan, Wisconsin, Florida and Missouri, have statutes and regulatory authorities similar to CERCLA and to the EPA. We have entered into hazardous waste hauling agreements with licensed third parties to properly dispose of hazardous wastes. We cannot assure you that we will not be found liable under CERCLA or other applicable state statutes or regulations for the costs of undertaking a cleanup at a site to which our wastes were transported. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, enforcement positions, statutes or legal interpretations, when and if promulgated, adopted or enacted, may have on our business in the future. These changes could, among other things, require modifications to our manufacturing methods or facilities, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. These changes, or new legislation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An increase in product liability claims or product recalls could harm our business. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our technologies or products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. These risks exist for products in clinical development and with respect to products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we have taken, and will continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. We currently have product liability insurance in the amount of $80.0 million for aggregate annual claims including a $20.0 million self-insured retention; however, we cannot assure you that the level or breadth of any insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. For example, we are now not able to obtain product liability insurance with respect to our products Menest®, Delestrogen® and Pitocin®, each a women’s healthcare product. With respect to any product liability claims relating to these products, we could be responsible for any monetary damages awarded by any court or any voluntary monetary settlements. Significant judgments against us for product liability for which we have no insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product recalls or product field alerts may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA, other government agencies or other companies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical product sales. From time to time, we may recall products for various reasons, including failure of our products to maintain their stability through their expiration dates. Any recall or product field alert has the potential of damaging the reputation of the product. To date, these recalls have not been significant and have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, we cannot assure you that the number and significance of recalls will not increase in the future. Any significant recalls could materially affect our sales and the prescription trends for the products and damage 34 Table of Contents the reputation of the products. In these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Any reduction in reimbursement levels by managed care organizations or other third-party payors may have an adverse effect on our revenues. Commercial success in producing, marketing and selling branded prescription pharmaceutical products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party health care payors, such as the government, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging whether to reimburse certain pharmaceutical products and medical services. For example, many managed health care organizations limit reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. These limits may take the form of formularies with differential co-pay tiers. The resulting competition among pharmaceutical companies to maximize their product reimbursement has generally reduced growth in average selling prices across the industry. We cannot assure you that our products will be appropriately reimbursed or included on the formulary lists of managed care organizations or that downward pricing pressures in the industry generally will not negatively impact our operations. The commercial success of some of our products depends, in part, on whether third-party reimbursement is available for the use of our products by hospitals, clinics, doctors, pharmacies and patients. Third-party payors include state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicaid and other entitlement programs, as well as managed care organizations, private insurance plans and health maintenance organizations. Because of the growing size of the patient population covered by third party reimbursement, it is important to our business that we market our products to reimbursers that serve many of these organizations. Payment or reimbursement of only a portion of the cost of our prescription products could make our products less attractive, from a net-cost perspective, to patients, suppliers, retail pharmacies and prescribing physicians. Managed care organizations and other third-party payors try to negotiate the pricing of products to control their costs. Managed care organizations and pharmacy benefit managers typically develop reimbursement coverage strategies, including formularies, to reduce their cost for medications. Formularies can be based on the prices and/or therapeutic benefits of the available products. Due to their lower costs, generics receive more favorable reimbursement. The breadth of the products reimbursed varies considerably from one managed care organization to another, and many formularies include alternative and competitive products or therapies for treatment of particular medical conditions. Denial of a product from reimbursement can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization patient population. If our products are not included within an adequate number of formularies or adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be negatively affected, as could our overall business and financial condition. We have addressed our contract relationship with managed care organizations in an effort to increase the attractiveness of reimbursements for our products. We take reserves for the estimated amounts of rebates we will pay to managed care organizations each quarter. Any increased usage of our products through Medicaid or managed care programs will increase the amount of rebates that we owe. We cannot assure you that our products will be included on the formulary lists of managed care organizations or that adverse reimbursement issues will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we fail to comply with the safe harbors provided under various federal and state laws, our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to include, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors” or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. We seek to comply with these safe harbors. Due to the breadth of 35 Table of Contents the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly (in the civil context), or knowingly and willfully (in the criminal context), presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicaid and Medicare) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products are currently a subject of investigation by the Office of Inspector General, and as such they are likely to be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicaid and Medicare. Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the future, the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials may adversely impact our products. From time to time studies or clinical trials on various aspects of pharmaceutical products are conducted by academics or others, including government agencies, the results of which, when published, may have dramatic effects on the markets for the pharmaceutical products that are the subject of the study. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete could adversely affect our sales, the prescription trends for our products and the reputation of our products. In the event of the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our branded pharmaceutical products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, potential write-offs of the intangible assets associated with the affected products could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New legislation or regulatory proposals may adversely affect our revenues. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, including the cost of prescription products, importation and reimportation of prescription products from countries outside the United States and changes in the levels at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products, have been proposed. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals may have on our business, these proposals, as well as the adoption of any proposal, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, in 2000, Congress directed the FDA to adopt regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at a lower price. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has refused to implement this directive, in July 2003 the House of Representatives passed a similar bill that does not require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives could decrease the price we receive for our products. Additionally, sales of our products in the United States could be adversely affected by the importation of products that some may deem to be equivalent to ours that are manufactured by others and are available outside the United States. Many States have implemented or are in the process of implementing regulations requiring pharmaceutical companies to provide them with certain marketing and pricing information. While we intend to comply with these regulations, we are unable at this time to predict or estimate the effect of these regulations, if any. Changes in the Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs or the amounts paid by those programs for our services may adversely affect our earnings. These programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes and cost containment measures. In recent years, changes in these programs have limited and reduced reimbursement to providers. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, creates a voluntary prescription drug benefit under the 36 Table of Contents Social Security Act, which we refer to as “Medicare Drug Benefit.” Beginning in 2006, Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Part A or enrolled in Part B, as well as certain other Medicare enrollees, are eligible for the Medicare Drug Benefit. Regulations implementing the Medicare Drug Benefit were published January 28, 2005. The Medicare Drug Act requires that the Federal Trade Commission conduct a study and make recommendations regarding additional legislation that may be needed concerning the Medicare Drug Benefit. We are unable at this time to predict or estimate the financial effect of this new legislation. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and other companies in our industry have much greater resources than we do. In our industry, comparatively smaller pharmaceutical companies like us compete with large, global pharmaceutical companies with substantially greater financial resources for the acquisition of products in development, currently marketed products, technologies and companies. We cannot assure you that • we will be able to continue to acquire commercially attractive pharmaceutical products, companies or technologies; • additional competitors will not enter the market; or • competition for acquisition of products in development, currently marketed products, companies and technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also compete with pharmaceutical companies in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products typically decline as competition increases. Further, other products now in use, developed or acquired by other pharmaceutical companies may be more effective or offered at lower prices than our current or future products. Competitors may also be able to complete the regulatory process sooner and, therefore, may begin to market their products in advance of ours. We believe that competition for sales of our products will continue to be based primarily on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability and price. Competition for Acquisitions and In-License Opportunities. We compete with other pharmaceutical companies for product and product line acquisitions and in-license opportunities. These competitors include Biovail Corporation, Forest Laboratories, Inc., Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation, Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Wyeth, Pfizer, Inc., Bristol Myers Squibb, Sanofi Aventis, GlaxoSmithKline and other companies which either in-license pharmaceutical product opportunities or compounds, or acquire branded pharmaceutical products and product lines, including those in development, from other biotech, pharmaceutical or bio-pharma companies. We cannot assure you that • we will be successful in the acquisition, or in-license of commercially attractive pharmaceutical opportunities, compounds, products, companies or technologies, • additional competitors will not enter the market, • competition for acquisition and in-license of pharmaceutical opportunities, compounds or products, including products in development, currently marketed products, companies and technologies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or • we will be successful in bringing compounds, products in development or other opportunities to commercial success. Product Competition. Additionally, since our currently marketed products are generally established and commonly sold, they are subject to competition from products with similar qualities. Our largest product Altace® competes in a very competitive and highly genericized market with other cardiovascular therapies. Our product Skelaxin® competes in a highly genericized market with other muscle relaxants. 37 Table of Contents Our product Sonata® competes with other insomnia treatments in a highly competitive market. Our product Levoxyl® competes in a competitive and highly genericized market with other levothyroxine sodium products. We anticipate competition from both bovine and recombinant human thrombin for our product Thrombin-JMI® in the near future. We intend to market these products aggressively by, among other things: • detailing and sampling to the primary prescribing physician groups, and • sponsoring physician symposia, including continuing medical education seminars. Many of our branded pharmaceutical products have either a strong market niche or competitive position. Some of our branded pharmaceutical products face competition from generic substitutes. The manufacturers of generic products typically do not bear the related research and development costs and, consequently, are able to offer such products at considerably lower prices than the branded equivalents. We cannot assure you that any of our products will remain exclusive without generic competition, or maintain their market share, gross margins and cash flows as a result of these efforts, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts that are not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. These statements are contained in the “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections, as well as other sections of this report. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: • the future potential of, including anticipated net sales and prescription trends for our branded pharmaceutical products, particularly Altace®, Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, Sonata® and Levoxyl®; • expectations regarding the enforceability and effectiveness of product-related patents, including in particular patents related to Altace®, Skelaxin®, Sonata® and Adenoscan®; • expected trends and projections with respect to particular products, reportable segment and income and expense line items; • the timeliness and accuracy of wholesale inventory data provided by our customers; • the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources; • anticipated capital expenditures; • the development, approval and successful commercialization of Remoxytm, an investigational drug for the treatment of moderate-to-severe chronic pain; binodenoson, our next generation cardiac pharmacologic stress-imaging agent; PT-141, an investigational new drug for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction; T-62, an investigational drug for the treatment of neuropathic pain; MRE0094, an investigational drug for the topical treatment of chronic diabetic foot ulcers; the development of a new formulation of Skelaxin®; pre-clinical programs; and product life-cycle development projects; 38 Table of Contents • the development, approval and successful commercialization of a diazepam-filled auto-injector, new inhaler for Intal® and Tilade® using the alternative propellant HFA, and an Altace®/diuretic combination product; • our successful execution of our growth strategies; • anticipated developments and expansions of our business; • our plans for the manufacture of some of our products, including but not limited to, the anticipated expansion of our manufacturing capacity for Thrombin-JMI®; • anticipated increases in sales of acquired products or royalty revenues; • the success of our Co-Promotion Agreement with Wyeth; • the high cost and uncertainty of research, clinical trials and other development activities involving pharmaceutical products; • the development of product line extensions; • the unpredictability of the duration or future findings and determinations of the FDA, including the pending applications related to our diazepam-filled auto-injector and a new Intal® inhaler formulation utilizing HFA, and other regulatory agencies worldwide; • products developed, acquired or in-licensed that may be commercialized; • the intent, belief or current expectations, primarily with respect to our future operating performance; • expectations regarding sales growth, gross margins, manufacturing productivity, capital expenditures and effective tax rates; • expectations regarding the outcome of various pending legal proceedings including the Altace® and Skelaxin® patent challenges, the SEC and Office of Inspector General investigations, other possible governmental investigations, securities litigation, and other legal proceedings described in this report; and • expectations regarding our financial condition and liquidity as well as future cash flows and earnings. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements. These known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in detail in the “Risk Factors” section and in other sections of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 