ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE INVESTIGATION OF OUR EQUITY COMPENSATION GRANT PRACTICES, THE ONGOING INFORMAL INQUIRY BY THE SEC AND RESTATEMENT OF OUR PAST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MAY HAVE CONTINUING ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES As discussed in the “Explanatory Note Regarding Restatements” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Special Committee of our Board of Directors has conducted an independent investigation relating to our equity compensation grant practices, with the assistance of independent outside legal counsel. The Special Committee and our management have determined that incorrect measurement dates for certain equity compensation awards were used for financial accounting purposes and certain other previously issued grants were modified without properly recording compensation expense. Although the Special Committee did not find any evidence of intentional wrongdoing by current employees, officers or directors of the company, as a result of the foregoing events, we may be subject to significant risks. Each of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • we are subject to, and cooperating fully with, the ongoing informal SEC inquiry, which may require further management time and attention and cause us to incur additional accounting and legal expense and/or substantial fines or other penalties; • we may be subject to additional formal or informal regulatory proceedings, actions or litigations with the SEC or other governmental authorities; • we may be subject to further civil litigations arising from the Special Committee’s investigation, the SEC inquiry, or our restatement of our past financial statements, including but not limited to shareholder class action lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of us; and • many members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors may be required to devote a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing informal SEC investigation, our outstanding periodic reports, remedial efforts and potential further litigation. THE DELAY IN FILING OUR REPORTS WITH THE SEC MAY RESULT IN ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR THE COMPANY We did not meet the required filing dates for our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 or our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. With the filing of this Annual Report we are now current with our filings up to December 31, 2006, but have not filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 by the required filing date. As a result, there may be consequences that arise from the delay in filing the reports related to our convertible subordinated debentures, our other senior debt or our stock award plans. INCREASED COMPETITION COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES, MARGINS AND OPERATING RESULTS The visual content industry is and has been intensely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We expect competition to increase because of changes in the media industry, changing advertising practices, technological advances leading to relatively inexpensive creation, marketing and distribution of visual content, and a lack of substantial barriers to entry. Our competitors range in size from significant media companies to individual visual content producers. While we believe the breadth of our businesses and product and service portfolio offers benefits to our customers that are a competitive advantage, our current or potential competitors may develop products, licensing models, technology or services comparable or superior to those that we develop or may adapt more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies or evolving industry trends. Increased competition or more effective competitors could result in lost market share, having to reduce prices or otherwise having reduced revenue, lower margins, increased capital expenditures, or otherwise negatively impact our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. See the listing of some of our current and potential competitors under the heading “Competition” in Item 1 of this Annual Report. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, both within and outside of our control. Some of the factors that may affect our revenues and operating results include the following: • demand for our existing and new imagery and related services, and those of our competitors; • changes in our pricing or licensing models, policies and practices and those of our competitors; Table of Contents 13 GETTY IMAGES, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1A • changes in the mix of imagery licensed and services sold, including the mix of licensed uses, company-owned versus contributor-supplied imagery, and the geographic distribution of such licenses, each of which affects the price of a license and/or the royalty we pay on the license; • our ability to attract and retain customers; • our ability to manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated with maintaining and developing our websites, customer support, and international and product line expansion; • costs related to potential acquisitions and the development and/or use of technology, services or products; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in global capital markets and economic conditions, and changes to applicable tax laws and regulations; • the termination or expiration of certain image partner, distributor or other material agreements; and • changes in estimates and assumptions made by us in preparing our financial statements, including those discussed in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Assumptions” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of these risks and others, it is possible that our future results may differ from our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors, causing our stock price to fluctuate. You should not rely on the results for any period as an indication of future performance. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY BE DILUTIVE TO EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS AND WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN ACQUIRING OR INTEGRATING BUSINESSES As part of our business strategy, we have in the past acquired and invested in, and may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that could complement or expand our business. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions or investments, and may negatively impact our results of operations. Further, the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, as well as the integration of acquired businesses, may divert management time and other resources. Certain other risks related to acquisitions that may have a material impact on our business or prevent us from benefiting from an acquisition or investment include: • costs incurred in performing due diligence and professional fees relating to potential acquisitions; • use of cash resources, incurrence of debt or stockholder dilution through issuances of our securities to fund acquisitions; • assumption of actual or contingent liabilities, known and unknown; • amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, impairment of any goodwill acquired and other adverse accounting consequences; • difficulties and expenses in integrating the sales, marketing, operations, products, services, technology, financial and information systems of an acquired company; • retention of key employees, customers, and suppliers of an acquired business; and • an adverse review of an acquisition or potential acquisition, or limitations put on such acquisitions, by a regulatory body. WE MAY EXPERIENCE SYSTEM AND SERVICE DISRUPTIONS AND DIFFICULTIES The digitization and Internet distribution of our visual content is a key component of our business. As a result, we are particularly dependent upon, and have expended significant resources to ensure, the efficient functioning of our websites (and the technology behind them) to allow our customers to access and conduct transactions through our websites. We also have focused significant resources and attention on the installation and development of systems for technology, business processes, sales and marketing systems, royalty and other finance systems, customer interfaces, and other corporate administrative functions, on which we depend to manage and control our operations. We will need to continue to improve our websites and systems, as well as our network infrastructures, to improve our customer experience and to accommodate anticipated increased traffic, sales volume, and processing of the resulting information. If we experience significant disruptions or difficulties as a result of or during any such updates or upgrades, we may face system interruptions, poor website response times, diminished customer services, impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment, and potential problems with our internal control over financial reporting. Substantial or repeated system disruption or failures would reduce the attractiveness of our websites significantly. Table of Contents 14 GETTY IMAGES, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1A In the past, we have experienced infrequent and brief system interruptions that made portions of our websites unavailable or prevented us from efficiently uploading images to our website, or taking, processing or fulfilling orders. Our websites have in the past occasionally experienced slow response times. Additionally, we depend on certain third-party software and system providers for the processing and distribution of our imagery and related services. System disruptions and difficulties, whether as a result of our internally developed systems or those of the third-party providers, may inconvenience our customers and/or result in negative publicity, and may negatively affect our ability to provide services and the volume of images we license and deliver over the Internet. These types of occurrences in the future could cause users to perceive our sites as not functioning properly and cause them to use another website or other methods to obtain the products or services we offer. Additionally, the computer and communications hardware necessary to operate our corporate functions are located in metropolitan areas worldwide. Any of these systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquake and similar events. In certain of our offices and facilities, we may not have complete redundancy for all of our network and telecommunications facilities. SYSTEMS SECURITY RISKS AND CONCERNS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS An important component of our business is the secure transmission of confidential information and the transaction of commerce over the Internet. Developments in computer capabilities, viruses, or other events could result in compromises or breaches of our systems, website or networks, jeopardizing proprietary and confidential information belonging to us or our customers, or causing potentially serious interruptions in our services, sales or operations. We continue to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Significant compromises of our security system or the Internet may reduce our customers’ desire to transact business over the Internet. OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS WOULD SUFFER IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT AND ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We rely upon copyright, patent, trade secret and trademark law, assignment of invention and confidentiality agreements and license agreements to protect our proprietary technology, processes, content and other intellectual property. The steps we might take may not be adequate to protect against infringement and misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties. Similarly, third parties may be able to independently develop similar or superior technology, processes, content or other intellectual property. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could enable third parties to benefit from our technology and imagery without paying us for it. If this occurs, our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, disputes concerning the ownership or rights to use intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from other tasks of operating the business, and may result in our loss of significant rights and the impairment of our ability to operate our business. OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MAY INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES AND ANY INFRINGEMENT COULD REQUIRE US TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS AND DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT From time to time we receive notices from third parties claiming we infringe their intellectual property rights. If we are subject to any such infringement claims or are infringing the rights of third parties, we may not be able to obtain licenses to use those rights on commercially reasonable terms, may have to stop selling or to redesign affected products, or may have to pay damages or satisfy indemnification commitments to our customers. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay damages and also could get an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from using the affected intellectual property. Claims of infringement can be expensive to defend, even if the claim is invalid, and may distract our management from our business. WE HAVE CLAIMS AND LAWSUITS AGAINST US THAT MAY RESULT IN ADVERSE OUTCOMES We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending against us may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations, the litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Table of Contents 15 GETTY IMAGES, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1A CERTAIN OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS CAN EXERCISE SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER OUR BUSINESS AND AFFAIRS Some of our stockholders own substantial percentages of the outstanding shares of our common stock. See Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of those stockholders that hold more than five percent of our outstanding shares. Additionally, Getty Investments L.L.C., the October 1993 Trust, the JD Klein Family Settlement, Mr. Mark H. Getty, our Chairman, and Mr. Jonathan D. Klein, our Chief Executive Officer (collectively the “Getty Group”), owned approximately 19% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at April 30, 2007. Getty Investments alone owned approximately 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at April 30, 2007. Mr. Getty serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Getty Investments, and Mr. Klein serves on the Board of Directors of Getty Investments. As a result of their share ownership, these shareholders have significant influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of business acquisitions. The substantial percentage of our common stock held by these shareholders also could make us a less attractive acquisition candidate or have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us at a premium over the then-current price of our common stock. In addition to ownership of our common stock, the Getty Group’s influence over us is increased by Mr. Getty’s role as the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and Mr. Klein’s role as Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors. WE MAY LOSE THE RIGHT TO USE “GETTY IMAGES” TRADEMARKS IN THE EVENT WE EXPERIENCE A CHANGE OF CONTROL We own trademarks and trademark applications for the name “Getty Images.” We use “Getty Images” as a corporate identity, as do certain of our subsidiaries, and we use “Getty Images” as a product and service brand. We refer to these trademarks and trademark applications as the Getty Images Trademarks. In the event that a third party or parties not affiliated with the Getty family acquires control of Getty Images, Getty Investments L.L.C. has the right to call for an assignment to it, for a nominal sum, all rights to the Getty Images Trademarks. In the event of an assignment, we will have 12 months to continue to use the Getty Images Trademarks, after which time we no longer would have the right to use them. Getty Investments’ right to cause such an assignment might have a negative impact on the amount of consideration that a potential acquirer would be willing to pay to acquire our common stock. OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN TALENTED EMPLOYEES Our business is based in part on our ability to successfully attract and retain talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers is extremely competitive. If we are unable to retain and motivate key employees or are less successful in our recruiting efforts, our ability to create and distribute superior products and properly service our customers may be adversely affected. AN INCREASE IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS We are subject to a number of laws and regulations directly applicable to e-commerce. State, federal and foreign governments have adopted, and may continue to adopt, legislation regulating the Internet and e-commerce. Such regulation could both increase our cost of doing business and impede the growth of our business or of the Internet, while decreasing the Internet’s acceptance or effectiveness as a communications and commerce medium. Existing or future laws and other regulations that may impact our business include, but are not limited to, those that govern or restrict: • privacy issues and data collection, processing, retention and transmission; • pricing and taxation of goods and services offered over the Internet; • website content, or the manner in which products and services may be offered and/or marketed over the Internet; and • sources of liability for companies involved in Internet services or e-commerce. WE MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL TAX LIABILITIES We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in many transactions where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax provisions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and reserves. The final determination of such tax liabilities, could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, earnings per share, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Table of Contents 16 GETTY IMAGES, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1A IF OUR GOODWILL OR OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS BECOME IMPAIRED, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO RECORD A SIGNIFICANT CHARGE TO EARNINGS Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN EXTERNAL FINANCING OR SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS While we currently anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents and future operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months, we could be required to obtain external financing should our financial results not meet our expectations, if our 0.5% convertible subordinated debentures become convertible and require repayment or should we need additional funds to acquire selected businesses or otherwise achieve our objectives. Our convertible subordinated debentures require cash repayment of up to the $265.0 million of principal upon maturity in 2023, which repayment may be accelerated in full upon the occurrence of an “Event of Default” as defined under the indenture governing the debentures. Such an acceleration of the debentures has been threatened. On February 21, 2007, the Trustee under the indenture governing the debentures notified us that, in connection with our delay in filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2006, an “Event of Default” under the indenture had occurred. Although we believe that such an assertion is without merit and any default under the indenture, to the extent it exists, is cured by our filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2006, our business could be harmed if any such “Event of Default” were to occur and the repayment on the debentures were accelerated. See discussion of the terms of these debentures in the “Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should we need to obtain external financing, through debt or equity, our ability to do so could be affected by changes in U.S. and global capital markets and economies, significant fluctuations in interest rates, the price of our equity securities, fluctuations in the results of our operations and financial position, and other financial and business conditions, many of which are beyond our control. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING MAY AFFECT OUR REPORTED EARNINGS AND OPERATING INCOME Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as treatment of tax liabilities, goodwill or intangible assets, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in our products or business could significantly change our reported earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. For discussion of some of the significant accounting pronouncements that are currently or we expect will affect our business, see the recent pronouncements under the heading “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. WE OPERATE A GLOBAL BUSINESS THAT EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS We operate in numerous countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from sales outside the United States. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by changes in regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. While we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenues, operating income, net income and earnings per share, as well as future cash flows. CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF OUR CORPORATE DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE CORPORATE LAW MAY DETER A THIRD PARTY FROM ACQUIRING US Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote, approval or action by our stockholders. This authority, together with certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. This could occur even if our stockholders consider Table of Contents 17 GETTY IMAGES, INC. 2006 FORM 10-K PART I ITEM 1A such change in control to be in their best interests. In addition, the concentration of beneficial ownership of our common stock in the Getty Group, along with certain provisions of Delaware law, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a takeover of us. WE HAVE BEEN NAMED AS A PARTY TO TWO SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE LAWSUITS RELATING TO OUR HISTORICAL STOCK OPTION GRANT PRACTICES, AND WE MAY BE NAMED IN ADDITIONAL LAWSUITS IN THE FUTURE Two derivative actions were filed against certain of our current and former directors and officers purporting to assert claims on the company’s behalf relating to our historical stock option grant practices. There may be additional lawsuits of this nature filed in the future. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, nor can we predict the amount of time and expense that will be required to resolve these lawsuits. If the plaintiffs ultimately prevailed in these lawsuits, our insurance coverage would not cover our total liabilities and expenses associated with the lawsuits because we have significant deductibles on certain aspects of the coverage. In addition, subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with the investigation and litigation of our historical stock option grant practices and the related government inquiries. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our current directors and officers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 