ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Economic conditions either nationally or locally in areas in which our operations are concentrated may adversely affect our business. Deterioration in local, regional, national or global economic conditions could cause us to experience a reduction in deposits and new loans, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our performance and financial condition. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services locally. Therefore, we are particularly vulnerable to adverse local economic conditions. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with nonperforming loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service 6 Table of Contents area. Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits or larger branch systems than we do. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions. As a result, those non bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. We may be adversely affected by government regulation. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. In addition, we will continue to depend on our ability to retain and recruit key commercial loan officers. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able properly or timely to anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commonly referred to as the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by 7 Table of Contents any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. Federal and state banking laws, our articles of incorporation and our by-laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Federal law imposes restrictions, including regulatory approval requirements, on persons seeking to acquire control over us. Pennsylvania law also has provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws permit our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock and additional shares of common stock that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of existing common shareholders. These provisions may serve to entrench management or discourage a takeover attempt that shareholders consider to be in their best interest or in which they would receive a substantial premium over the current market price. Our legal lending limits are relatively low and restrict our ability to compete for larger customers. At December 31, 2005, our lending limit per borrower was approximately $6.6 million, or approximately 15% of our capital. Accordingly, the size of loans that we can offer to potential borrowers (without participation by other lenders) is less than the size of loans that many of our competitors with larger capitalization are able to offer. Our legal lending limit also impacts the efficiency of our lending operation because it tends to lower our average loan size, which means we have to generate a higher number of transactions to achieve the same portfolio volume. We may engage in loan participations with other banks for loans in excess of our legal lending limits. However, there can be no assurance that such participations will be available at all or on terms which are favorable to us and our customers. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated, ranging between $11.07 and $15.94 per share during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. The overall market and the price of our common stock may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant impact on the market price for our common stock due to, among other things, developments in our business, variations in our anticipated or actual operating results, changes in investors’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business and the size of the public float of our common stock. The average daily trading volume for our common stock as reported on NASDAQ was 6,742 shares during the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, with daily volume ranging from a low of 100 shares to a high of 123,401. We do not expect that a more active or consistent trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades will have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. A court decision in favor of the purported option-holders could have an effect on our stock price. First Penn Bank merged with First Bank of Philadelphia in 1999. PSB cancelled 1,371,200 of the options issued pursuant to the merger to certain First Bank of Philadelphia shareholders. PSB is subject to numerous lawsuits related to the cancellation of the 1,371,200 options. PSB has included 895,240 of the disputed options in its prior period computation of diluted earnings per share that were the subject of an action that resulted in 895,240 shares being deposited into an escrow account (See Item 3-Legal Proceedings, Paragraph H). If a court were to find that the additional 475,960 options cancelled by PSB (the “Additional Options”) were validly issued, the fully diluted earnings per share of PSB would be reduced by an additional 5%. PSB cannot predict the outcome of this ongoing litigation. This additional dilution could have an adverse affect on the share price of PSB’s common stock. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings. 8 Table of Contents A court decision in favor of the shareholders with respect to the shareholder derivative suit could have an effect on our stock price. On December 2, 2004, a number of the shareholders involved in the option litigation delivered a demand letter to PSB’s Board of Directors that demanded that the Board take a number of actions, including seeking to have the 2001 PSB Stock Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) and certain options granted pursuant to the Plan declared null and void. On March 17, 2005, a number of purported shareholders sued derivatively in the name and right of PSB (the “Derivative Suit”) with respect to claims in the demand letter relating to the Plan. As part of the Board of Director’s response to the shareholder demand letter, a special committee was appointed to investigate numerous allegations including those contained in the Derivative Suit. The special committee retained special counsel to investigate and prepare a report on its findings. Based on the report from special counsel, the Board of Directors has concluded that no corrective action is necessary and that the Derivative Suit should be terminated. Pennsylvania law provides that if the process used by the Board of Directors in deciding to terminate the Derivative Suit was valid, then the court should dismiss the Derivative Suit prior to litigation on the merits. PSB is unable to predict the eventual outcome of this action or the effect on the share price of PSB’s common stock. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. NONE 