Risk Factors,” Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” “Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 7 and “Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies” within Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Available Information and Stock Exchange Certification Our Internet address is www.raytheon.com. The content on our website is available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. 14 Table of Contents We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website under the heading “Investor Relations,” our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of our key corporate governance documents, including our Governance Principles, Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and charters for the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating Committee and Public Affairs Committee of Board of Directors and code of ethics entitled “Standards of Business Ethics and Conduct” are also available on our website. Stockholders may request free copies of these documents from the Investor Relations Department by writing to Raytheon Company, Investor Relations, 870 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451, or by calling (781) 522-5123 or by sending an email request to invest@raytheon.com. We filed our annual CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange on May 25, 2006. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K and the information we are incorporating by reference contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws, including information regarding our anticipated sale of Raytheon Aircraft Company, 2007 financial outlook, future plans, objectives, business prospects and anticipated financial performance. You can identify these statements by the fact that they include words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” or variations of these words, or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts and represent only our current expectations regarding such matters. These statements inherently involve a wide range of known and unknown uncertainties. Our actual actions and results could differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these statements. Specific factors that could cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these factors, as well as other variables that may affect our operating results, you should not rely on forward-looking statements, assume that past financial performance will be a reliable indicator of future performance, nor use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We expressly disclaim any obligation or intention to provide updates to the forward-looking statements and the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The consummation of our sale of Raytheon Aircraft Company is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the satisfaction or waiver of specified closing conditions by both parties. In December 2006, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our wholly-owned subsidiary, Raytheon Aircraft Company. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and the absence of events occurring that would have a material adverse effect (as defined in the definitive agreement) on Raytheon Aircraft, and is expected to be consummated during the first half of 2007. In the event that the Raytheon Aircraft sale, as contemplated, is not consummated, Raytheon Aircraft’s business could be negatively impacted by customer and employee concerns arising from the uncertainty of the situation. Additionally, the market value of our common stock, which may assume and reflect the consummation of the announced Raytheon Aircraft sale, may fluctuate and be volatile. We depend on the U.S. government for a significant portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have severe consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. Raytheon Aircraft, which derives a substantial majority of its revenues from the sale of business aircraft to commercial customers, is our only principal business that is not predominantly a government defense business. Accordingly, in the event that our sale of Raytheon Aircraft is consummated, our dependence upon the U.S. government for business would increase. In 2006, with Raytheon Aircraft presented as discontinued operations and therefore no longer included in our net sales, U.S. government sales accounted for approximately 84% of our total net sales. U.S. government sales included foreign military sales of $1.3 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our revenues from the U.S. government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. government programs, primarily defense-related programs. The funding of our programs is subject to the overall U.S. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events 15 Table of Contents and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. While the overall level of U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the U.S. Department of Defense’s military transformation initiatives, we can give no assurance that such spending will continue to grow, or not be reduced. Significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. In addition, changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial performance is dependent on our ability to perform our U.S. government contracts which are subject to uncertain levels of funding and termination. Our financial performance is dependent on our performance under our U.S. government contracts. While we are involved in numerous programs and are parties to thousands of U.S. government contracts, the termination of one or more large contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays, cost overruns and product failures in connection with one or more large contracts, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contract or subcontract under such program may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such contract or subcontract. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. Furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the U.S. government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. Our government contracts also typically involve the development, application and manufacturing of advanced defense and technology systems and products aimed at achieving challenging goals. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In some instances, product requirements or specifications may be modified. As a result, we may experience technological and other performance difficulties, which may result in delays, setbacks, cost overruns and product failures, in connection with performing our government contracts. Our international sales are a significant portion of our business and such sales may expand in the future; accordingly, we may increasingly become subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. Our international business exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business and our exposure to such risks may increase if our international business continues to grow as we anticipate. Our international business is subject to local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, including regulations relating to import-export control, investments, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency, geo-political and economic risks. We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses to conduct operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments. Due to the nature of our products, we must first obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. government agencies before we are permitted to sell many of our products outside of the U.S. For example, the U.S. Department of 16 Table of Contents State must notify Congress at least 15 to 30 days, depending on the size and location of the sale, prior to authorizing certain sales of defense equipment and services to foreign governments. During that time, Congress may take action to block the proposed sale. We can give no assurance that we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations or that Congress will not prevent or delay certain sales. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Competition within our markets may reduce our revenues and market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas. We anticipate increasing competition in our core markets as a result of defense industry consolidation, which has enabled companies to enhance their competitive position and ability to compete against us, and the anticipated moderation of U.S. defense spending growth, which will limit market opportunities for us and our competitors. These markets also are becoming increasingly more concentrated due to the trend of certain customers awarding a smaller number of large multi-service contracts. We are also facing increasing competition in our domestic and international markets from foreign and multinational firms. Additionally, some customers, including the DoD, are increasingly turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for information technology and other support work. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience declines in revenues and market share which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new offerings and technologies for our current and future markets. To achieve our business strategies and continue to grow our revenues and operating profit, we must successfully develop new or adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies for our current core defense markets and our future markets, including adjacent and emerging markets. Accordingly, our future performance depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: – Identify emerging technological trends in our current and future markets; – Identify additional uses for our existing technology to address customer needs in our current or future markets; – Develop and maintain competitive products and services for our current and future markets; – Enhance our offerings by adding innovative features that differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors; – Develop and manufacture and bring solutions to market quickly at cost-effective prices; and – Effectively structure our businesses, through the use of joint ventures, teaming agreements and other forms of alliances, to the competitive environment. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest significant financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. These expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. The possibility that our competitors might develop new technology or offerings might cause our existing technology and offerings to become obsolete. If we fail in our new product development efforts or our products or services fail to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors, our ability to procure new government contracts could be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We enter into fixed-price contracts which could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns. A significant portion of our contracts are entered into on a fixed-price basis. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but we carry the burden of cost overruns. Because many of our contracts involve advanced designs and innovative 17 Table of Contents technologies, we may experience unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns. If our initial estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts then we may not realize their full benefits. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns and cost controls would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. As a government contractor, we are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies such as the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA). These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The DCAA also reviews the adequacy of and a contractor’s compliance with its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. Government contractors must also comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. If these requirements change, our costs of complying with them could increase and reduce our margins. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Among the causes for debarment are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records and the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. The termination of a government contract or relationship as a result of any of these acts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. We depend on component availability, subcontractor performance and our key suppliers to manufacture and deliver our products and services. We are dependent upon the delivery of materials by suppliers and the assembly of major components and subsystems by subcontractors used in our products in a timely and satisfactory manner and in full compliance with applicable terms and conditions. With respect to most of our business, we must comply with specific procurement requirements, which may, in effect, limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. In some instances, we are dependent on sole-source suppliers. If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet our needs, we may not have readily available alternatives. While we enter into long-term or volume purchase agreements with certain suppliers and take other actions to ensure the availability of needed materials, components and subsystems, we cannot be sure that such items will be available in the quantities we require, if at all. If we experience a material supplier or subcontractor problem, our ability to satisfactorily and timely complete our customer obligations could be negatively impacted which could result in reduced sales, termination of contracts and damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers. We could also incur additional costs in addressing such a problem. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, including risks associated with customer directed delays and reductions in scheduled deliveries, unfavorable resolutions of claims and contractual matters, judgments associated with estimating contract revenues and costs, and assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and 18 Table of Contents nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, we must make assumptions regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials; consider incentives or penalties related to performance on contracts in estimating sales and profit rates, and record them when there is sufficient information for us to assess anticipated performance; and use estimates of award fees in estimating sales and profit rates based on actual and anticipated awards. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. At December 31, 2006, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of approximately $12.1 billion, net of accumulated amortization, which represented approximately 47% of our total assets. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We remain subject to certain risks and uncertainties with respect to Raytheon Aircraft Company while we continue to operate the business. While we continue to operate Raytheon Aircraft, we remain subject to certain risks and uncertainties including the risks associated with: using lot accounting for new commercial aircraft and our valuation of used aircraft and parts in inventories, both of which require significant judgment and the use of assumptions and estimates; a downturn in the general aviation and other aircraft markets which could result in declining sales of aircraft and increases in aircraft inventories and costs; an accident involving our aircraft which could result in significant tort liability and harm our reputation and result in reduced sales; and compliance with extensive government regulation over aircraft manufacturing, which could require us to incur greater costs and reduce our margins. If Flight Options is unable to meet its projected future financial performance or otherwise support its carrying value, we could record additional impairment charges which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Flight Options has a history of operating losses. In the fourth quarter of 2006 and 2005, we recorded a $55 million pretax and a $22 million pretax goodwill impairment charge related to Flight Options, respectively, based on our determination that the fair value of the business was not sufficient to recover the carrying value of its assets, including goodwill. We estimated the fair value of Flight Options using a discounted cash flow methodology. There were no observable market comparables available. The discounted cash flow methodology was based on the most recent Flight Options long-term plan at such time and the financial objectives therein. This methodology involves significant judgment regarding Flight Options’ projected future cash flows, expected market conditions and the impact of these on the selection of the discount rate used in estimating the fair value of Flight Options. We periodically evaluate whether conditions exist or events have occurred that impact Flight Options’ ability to achieve its financial objectives or otherwise affect the value of Flight Options. Such conditions or events may include a downturn in the fractional ownership or general aviation markets or a significant change in industry dynamics or customer preferences, increased competition or pricing pressures, an increase in Flight Options’ operating costs due to higher aircraft or other costs, a change in our operating model or strategy with respect to Flight Options, or other information regarding its market value. If we determine that the fair value of Flight Options, which is largely based upon Flight Options’ projected future financial performance assuming continued operation by us, is less than its carrying value, then our investment in Flight Options could become further impaired. In the event that such a condition or event occurs, we may record additional charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional information related to Flight Options, see “Other” within “Segment Results” within Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 19 Table of Contents We use estimates in accounting for our pension plan and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our results of operations. We must determine our pension plan expense or income which involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to our long-term return on pension assets and discount rate assumptions. If our discount rate assumption or long-term return on assets (ROA) (which is used to determine the funded status of our pension plans) is decreased due to changes in our assumptions or other reasons, our pension plan funded status and expense could increase which would negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if our actual return on assets differs from our long-term ROA assumption, our pension plan funded status and pension expense would change. We have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. We have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into joint venture, teaming and other arrangements, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture or applicable entity failing to satisfy its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and expected benefits of the business arrangement, the risk of conflicts arising between us and our partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements. We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. In pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. In evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters and are subject to various other claims, demands and investigations. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our businesses, our future performance is highly dependent upon the continued services of our key engineering personnel and executive officers, the development of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive security clearance and substantial training in order to work on certain programs or perform certain tasks. The loss of key employees, our inability to attract new qualified employees or adequately train employees, or the delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage. Approximately 12,000 of our employees, including the employees of Raytheon Aircraft, are unionized, which represented approximately 15% of our employees at December 31, 2006. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict how stable our union relationships, currently with 9 different U.S. labor organizations and 4 different non-U.S. labor organizations, will be or whether we will be able to successfully negotiate successor agreements without impacting our financial condition. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Work stoppages could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete. We own many United States and foreign patents and patent applications, and have rights in unpatented know-how, trademarks and copyrights. On occasion, we have applied for semiconductor chip mask work registrations. The U.S. government has licenses in our patents and certain other intellectual property that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use such patents and intellectual property for government purposes. There can be no assurance that any of our patents and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In some instances, we have augmented our technology base by licensing the proprietary intellectual property of others. In the future, we may not be able to obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These measures may not suffice to deter misappropriation or independent third party development of similar technologies. Moreover, the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations may not be as advantageous to us as the remedies available under U.S. law. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. We use and generate large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. For example, we are investigating and remediating contamination related to our current or past practices at numerous properties and, in some cases, have been named as a defendant in related personal injury or “toxic tort” claims. We are also subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations that impose strict requirements for the proper management, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, restrict air and water emissions from our manufacturing operations, including government-owned facilities we manage, and require maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. In addition, if we were convicted of a violation of the Federal Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility involved in the violation could not be used in performing any U.S. government contract awarded during the violation period. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be adequately covered by indemnity or insurance. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. New technologies may be untested or unproven. In addition, we may incur significant liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including missile systems, command and control systems, and air 21 Table of Contents traffic management systems. In some, but not all, circumstances, we may receive indemnification from the U.S. government. While we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. Accordingly, we may be forced to bear substantial costs resulting from risks and uncertainties of our business which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. New accounting standards could result in changes to GAAP that could impact our reported results of operations, financial condition and other financial measures. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and other regulatory bodies may issue new and revised standards, interpretations and other guidance that change Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP). The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. Such changes to GAAP could impact our reported results of operations, financial condition and other financial measures. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 