Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the adverse events described in this “Risk Factors” section or other sections of this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, the trading price, if any, of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business If we cannot successfully enforce our rights under the patents relating to three of our largest products, Altace®, Skelaxin® and Sonata®, and the patent relating to Adenoscan®, or if we are unable to secure or enforce our rights under other patents, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property, additional competitors could enter the market, and sales of these products may decline materially. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, any generic pharmaceutical manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification, known as a “Paragraph IV certification,” challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, which is known as the “FDA’s Orange Book,” four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its NDA. Other companies have filed Paragraph IV certifications challenging the patents associated with several of our largest products, as described below. • Cobalt Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Cobalt”), a generic drug manufacturer, filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Altace® and filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity of a patent held by us related to Altace®. Aventis Pharma Deutschland GmbH (“Aventis”) and we filed suit in March 2003, in the District Court for the District of Massachusetts to enforce our rights under that patent. The parties submitted a joint stipulation of dismissal in April 2006, and the court granted dismissal. We have received a request for information from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with the dismissal without prejudice of our patent infringement litigation against Cobalt under the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. We are cooperating with the FTC in this investigation. • Lupin Ltd. (“Lupin”) filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Altace® and filed a Paragraph IV certification challenging the validity and infringement of a patent related to Altace®, and seeking to market its generic version of Altace® before expiration of that patent. In July 2005, we filed civil actions for infringement of the patent against Lupin. In July 2006, the validity of the patent was upheld. Lupin filed a notice of appeal in July 2006. Pursuant to the current schedule, appellate briefing will be completed in March 2007. • Eon Labs, Inc. (“Eon Labs”), CorePharma, LLC (“CorePharma”) and Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. (“Mutual”), Inc. have each filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Skelaxin® 400 mg tablets. Additionally, Eon Labs’ ANDA seeks permission to market a generic version of Skelaxin® 800 mg tablets. Each has also filed Paragraph IV certifications against patents related to Skelaxin® and are alleging noninfringement, invalidity and unenforceability of those patents. A patent infringement suit was filed against Eon Labs in January 2003; against CorePharma in March 2003; and against Mutual in March 2004 concerning their proposed 400 mg products. Additionally, we filed a separate suit against Eon Labs in December 2004 concerning its proposed 800 mg product. In May 2006 the Mutual case was suspended pending the outcome of the FDA activity described below. In June 2006, the Eon Labs cases were consolidated with the CorePharma case. In March 2004, we received a copy of a letter from the FDA to all ANDA applicants for Skelaxin® stating that the use listed in the FDA’s Orange Book for a patent related to Skelaxin may be deleted from the ANDA applicants’ product labeling. We believe that this decision is arbitrary, capricious, and inconsistent with the FDA’s previous position on this issue. We filed a Citizen Petition in March 2004, 18 Table of Contents supplemented in April and July 2004, requesting that the FDA rescind that letter, require generic applicants to submit Paragraph IV certifications for the patent in question, and prohibit the removal of information corresponding to the use listed in the Orange Book. We concurrently filed a Petition for Stay of Action requesting the FDA to stay approval of any generic metaxalone products until the FDA has fully evaluated our Citizen Petition. In March 2004, the FDA sent a letter to us explaining that our proposed labeling revision, which includes references to additional clinical studies relating to food, age, and gender effects, was approvable and only required certain formatting changes. In April 2004, we submitted amended labeling text that incorporated those changes. On the same day, Mutual filed a Petition for Stay of Action requesting the FDA to stay approval of our proposed labeling revision until the FDA has fully evaluated and ruled upon our Citizen Petition, as well as all comments submitted in response to that petition. CorePharma, Mutual and we have filed responses and supplements to their pending Citizen Petitions and responses. In December 2005, Mutual filed another supplement with the FDA in which it withdrew its prior Petition for Stay of Action, its supplement, and its opposition to King’s Citizen Petition. In November 2006, the FDA approved the revision to the Skelaxin® labeling. In February 2007, we filed another supplement to our pending Citizen Petition to reflect FDA approval of the revision to the Skelaxin® labeling If our Citizen Petition is rejected, there is a substantial likelihood that a generic version of Skelaxin® will enter the market, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In an attempt to mitigate this risk, we have entered into an agreement with a generic pharmaceutical company to launch an authorized generic of Skelaxin® in the event of generic competition. However, we cannot provide any assurance regarding the degree to which this strategy will be successful, if at all. • Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Sicor”), a generic drug manufacturer, filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Adenoscan®. It also filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging invalidity of a patent related to Adenoscan® and non-infringement of certain claims of that patent. We and Astellas Pharma US, Inc., the exclusive licensee of certain rights under the patent, filed suit in May 2005 against Sicor and its parents/affiliates Sicor, Inc., Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (“Teva”) and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd., to enforce our rights under the patent. In May 2006, Sicor stipulated to infringement of the asserted claims of the patent. Trial in this action began on February 12, 2007. • Teva filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Sonata®, as well as a Paragraph IV certification challenging the validity and enforceability of a patent related to Sonata which expires in June 2008. We filed suit against Teva to enforce our rights under that patent. In September 2006, the parties filed a stipulation with the Court in which Teva admitted infringement of the patent. In October 2006, Teva filed a summary judgment motion which the Court denied in January 2007. If any of these Paragraph IV challenges succeeds, our affected product would face generic competition and its sales would likely decline materially. Should sales decline, we may have to write off a portion or all of the intangible assets associated with the affected product. For additional information about these Paragraph IV challenges, please see Note 18 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Part IV Item 15(a)(1) “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary patent protection for other of our products or for products and technologies we develop or license. In addition, our competitors may develop products similar to ours, including generic products, using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property protection, which could materially reduce our sales. Although most of our revenue is generated by products not currently subject to competition from generic products, there is no proprietary protection for many of our branded pharmaceutical products, and generic substitutes for many of these products are sold by other pharmaceutical companies. Further, we also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in order to maintain 19 Table of Contents our competitive position with respect to some products. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and technology, or that we can adequately protect our trade secrets and technology. If we are unable to secure or enforce patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our supply agreements or purchase orders, including those related to Altace® and Skelaxin®, require us to purchase certain minimum levels of active ingredients or finished goods. If we are unable to maintain market exclusivity for our products, if our product life-cycle management is not successful, or if we fail to sell our products in accordance with the forecasts we develop as required by our supply agreements, we may incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under the supply agreements or purchase orders. In the event we incur losses in connection with the purchase commitments under our supply agreements or purchase orders, there may be a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and cash flows. Six of our products plus royalty payments presently account for 84.0% of our revenues from continuing operations and a decrease in sales or royalty income in the future would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In General. Altace®, Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, Levoxyl®, Sonata®, EpiPen® and royalty revenues for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2006 accounted for 32.8%, 20.9%, 12.4%, 5.6%, 4.3%, 4.0% and 4.0% of our total revenues from continuing operations, respectively, or 84.0% in total. We believe that these sources of revenue may constitute a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products or products for which we receive royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. For example, with the amendment of our Co-Promotion Agreement with Wyeth, we have assumed full responsibility for the selling and marketing of Altace®. If we do not sell and market Altace® effectively, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, the agreements associated with some sources of royalty income may be terminated upon short notice and without cause. Product Competition. Additionally, since our currently marketed products are generally established and commonly sold, they are subject to competition from products with similar qualities. Our largest selling product Altace® competes in a very competitive and highly genericized market with other cardiovascular therapies. Our product Skelaxin® competes in a highly genericized market with other muscle relaxants. Our product Sonata® competes with other insomnia treatments in a highly competitive market. Our product Levoxyl® competes in a competitive and highly genericized market with other levothyroxine sodium products. We anticipate competition from bovine, recombinant human and human thrombin for our product Thrombin-JMI® in the near future. Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a Biologics Licensing Application (“BLA”) in early November 2006 for its human thrombin product. Zymogenetics, Inc. filed a BLA for its recombinant human thrombin product in December 2006. Many of our branded pharmaceutical products have either a strong market niche or competitive position. Some of our branded pharmaceutical products face competition from generic substitutes. The manufacturers of generic products typically do not bear the related research and development costs and, consequently, are able to offer such products at considerably lower prices than the branded equivalents. We cannot assure you that any of our products will remain exclusive without generic competition, or maintain their market share, gross margins and cash flows, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. EpiPen. Dey, L.P. markets our EpiPen® auto-injector through a supply agreement with us that expires on December 31, 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, we grant Dey the exclusive right and license to market, 20 Table of Contents distribute and sell EpiPen®, either directly or through subdistributors. A failure by Dey to successfully market and distribute EpiPen® or an increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot implement our strategy to grow our business through increased sales, acquisitions, development and in-licensing, our business or competitive position in the pharmaceutical industry may suffer. Drug development is time-consuming and expensive. Only a small percentage of chemical compounds discovered by researchers prove to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 10 to 15 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. Clinical trials are conducted in a series of sequential phases, with each phase designed to address a specific research question. In Phase I clinical trials, researchers test a new drug or treatment in a small group of people to evaluate the drug’s safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify side effects. In Phase II clinical trials, researchers give the drug or treatment to a larger population to assess effectiveness and to further evaluate safety. In Phase III clinical trials, researchers give the drug or treatment to an even larger population to confirm its effectiveness, monitor side effects, compare it to commonly used treatments, and collect information that will allow the drug or treatment to be used safely. The results of Phase III clinical trials are pivotal for purposes of obtaining FDA approval of a new product. Our current strategy is to increase sales of our existing products and to enhance our competitive standing through acquisitions or in-licensing of products, either in development or previously approved by the FDA, that complement our business and enable us to promote and sell new products through existing marketing and distribution channels. Moreover, since we engage in limited proprietary research activity with respect to the development of new chemical entities, we rely heavily on purchasing or licensing products in development and FDA-approved products from other companies. Development projects, including those for which we have collaboration agreements with third parties, include the following: • Remoxytm, an investigational drug for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain; • binodenoson, a myocardial pharmacologic stress imaging agent; • Vanquixtm, a diazepam-filled auto-injector; • bremelanotide (which we previously referred to as PT-141), an investigational drug for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction; • MRE0094, an investigational drug for the topical treatment of chronic diabetic foot ulcers; • T-62, an investigational drug for the treatment of neuropathic pain; • a new inhaler for Intal® using the alternative propellant hydrofluoroalkane (“HFA”) for which the FDA has issued an approvable letter; • a potential new formulation of metaxalone; • a novel formulation of ramipril for which an NDA is pending; • an Altace®/diuretic combination product; and • a program to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Altace® in children. We compete with other pharmaceutical companies, including large pharmaceutical companies with financial, human and other resources substantially greater than ours, in the development and licensing of new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to 21 Table of Contents • engage in product life-cycle management to develop new indications and line extensions for existing and acquired products, • successfully develop, license or commercialize new products on a timely basis or at all, • continue to develop products already in development in a cost effective manner, or • obtain any FDA approvals necessary to successfully implement the strategies described above. If we are not successful in the development or licensing of new products already in development, including obtaining any necessary FDA approvals, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, other companies may license or develop products or may acquire technologies for the development of products that are the same as or similar to the products we have in development or that we license. Because there is rapid technological change in the industry and because many other companies may have more financial resources than we do, other companies may • develop or license their products more rapidly than we can, • complete any applicable regulatory approval process sooner than we can, • market or license their products before we can market or license our products, or • offer their newly developed or licensed products at prices lower than our prices. Any of these events would thereby have a negative effect on the sales of our existing, newly developed or licensed products. The inability to effect acquisitions or licenses of additional branded products in development and FDA-approved products could limit the overall growth of our business. Furthermore, even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product or acquire a company, we may not be able to generate sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. Technological developments or the FDA’s approval of new products or of new therapeutic indications for existing products may make our existing products or those products we are licensing or developing obsolete or may make them more difficult to market successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. If we cannot integrate the business of companies or products we acquire, or appropriately and successfully manage and coordinate third-party collaborative development activities, our business may suffer. The integration into our business of in-licensed or acquired assets or businesses, as well as the coordination and collaboration of research and development, sales and marketing efforts with third parties, requires significant management attention, maintenance of adequate operational, financial and management information systems, integration of systems that we acquire into our existing systems, and verification that the acquired systems meet our standards for internal control over financial reporting. Our future results will also depend in part on our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to manage expanded operations efficiently and in accordance with applicable regulatory standards. If we cannot manage our third-party collaborations and integrate in-licensed and acquired assets successfully, or, if we do not establish and maintain an appropriate administrative, support and control infrastructure to support these activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on our ability to make the necessary certifications with respect to our internal controls. We are required annually, or on an interim basis as needed, to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. If sales of our products decline because of, for example, generic competition or an inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient supply of product, the intangible asset value of any declining product could become impaired. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $972.5 million of net intangible assets and goodwill. Intangible assets primarily include the net book value of various product rights, trademarks, patents and other intangible rights. If a change in circumstances causes us to lower our future sales forecast for a product, we may be required to write off a portion of the net book value of the intangible assets associated with that product. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we estimate the fair value of our individual business reporting 22 Table of Contents units on a discounted cash flow basis. In the event the value of an individual business reporting unit declines significantly, it could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any impairment of the net book value of any intangible asset or goodwill, depending on the size, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products with whom we are presently engaged, or have previously been engaged in litigation, and these agreements could subject us to claims that we have violated federal and/or state anti-trust laws. We have negotiated and entered into a number of agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products, some of whom are presently engaged or have previously been engaged in litigation with us. Governmental and/or private parties may allege that these arrangements and activities in furtherance of the success of these arrangements violate applicable state or federal anti-trust laws. Alternatively, courts could interpret these laws in a manner contrary to current understandings of such laws. If a court or other governmental body were to conclude that a violation of these laws had occurred, any liability based on such a finding could be material and adverse and could be preceded or followed by private litigation such as class action litigation. We have received a request for information from the FTC in connection with the dismissal without prejudice of our patent infringement litigation against Cobalt under the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. We are cooperating with the FTC in this investigation. We could be required to pay significant sums in connection with the derivative litigation or the continuing SEC investigation, or the SEC could impose other sanctions on us. Subsequent to the announcement of the SEC investigation described in “SEC Investigation” included in Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(l), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” beginning in March 2003, four purported shareholder derivative complaints were filed in Tennessee state court alleging a breach of fiduciary duty, among other things, by some of our current and former officers and directors in connection with our underpayment of rebates owed to Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs, and certain transactions between us and the Benevolent Fund, a non-profit organization affiliated with certain former members of our senior management. These cases have been consolidated, and on October 11, 2006, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed Brian Markison and Elizabeth Greetham. Discovery with respect to the remaining claims in the case has commenced. No trial date has been set. Beginning in March 2003, three purported shareholder derivative complaints were likewise filed in Tennessee federal court, asserting claims similar to those alleged in the state derivative litigation. These cases have been consolidated, and on December 2, 2003 plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. On March 9, 2004, the court entered an order indefinitely staying these cases in favor of the state derivative action. The SEC investigation of our previously disclosed errors relating to reserves for product returns is continuing, and it is possible that this investigation could result in the SEC’s imposing fines or other sanctions on us. We are currently unable to predict the outcome or reasonably estimate the range of potential loss, if any, in the pending litigation. If we were not to prevail in the pending litigation, or if the SEC imposes any sanctions on us, neither of which we can predict or reasonably estimate at this time, we could be required to expend funds otherwise available for operation of the business. 23 Table of Contents Compliance with the terms and conditions of our corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services requires significant resources and management time and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or, under certain circumstances, excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales. In October 2005, as part of our settlement of the government pricing investigation of our company we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS/OIG”). For additional information, please see Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(1), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” The purpose of the CIA, which applies to all of our U.S. subsidiaries and employees, is to promote compliance with the federal health care and procurement programs in which we participate, including the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the Medicare Program, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and the Veterans Administration Pricing Program. In addition to the challenges associated with complying with the regulations applicable to each of these programs (as discussed below), we are required, among other things, to keep in place our current compliance program, provide specified training to employees, retain an independent review organization to conduct periodic audits of our Medicaid Rebate calculations and our automated systems, processes, policies and practices related to government pricing calculations, and to provide periodic reports to HHS/OIG. Implementing and maintaining the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the CIA has required, and is expected to continue to require, a significant portion of management’s attention as well as the application of significant resources. Failing to meet the CIA obligations could have serious consequences for us including stipulated monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, flagrant or repeated violations of the CIA could result in our being excluded from participating in government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales. Unfavorable results in pending and future claims and litigation matters could have an adverse impact on us. We are named as a party in various lawsuits, as are certain of our current and former directors and certain of our former officers. For information about our pending material litigation matters, please see Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(1), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” While we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these actions, we could be required to pay material sums in connection with judgments or settlements related to these matters, or they could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any significant delays or difficulties in the manufacture of, or supply of materials for, our products may reduce our profit margins and revenues, limit the sales of our products, or harm our products’ reputations. Many of our product lines, including Altace®, Skelaxin®, Sonata®, Intal®, Tilade®, Synercid® and Cortisporin®, are currently manufactured in part or entirely by third parties. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins or may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. For example, if any of these third parties are not in compliance with applicable regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed, halted or otherwise adversely affected. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute our products as planned. If we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers in producing or packaging our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products could be adversely affected, and we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or abandon or sell product lines on unsatisfactory terms. We might not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. We also cannot assure you that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. 24 Table of Contents We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, periods of stock-outs in our inventory of Sonata®. This product is manufactured for us by Wyeth. Wyeth has been unable to timely and consistently supply our forecasted need for Sonata® since December 2006. It is anticipated that the problems with production of Sonata® experienced by Wyeth will continue for an indeterminable period of time, leaving us, from time to time, if not continuously, without sufficient supply of product to meet demand. Our management is working with Wyeth to address these problems and transfer the manufacture of Sonata® to another manufacturer, but we currently do not have a solution that will assure us of consistent supply. Given the competitive market for this product, we have and will likely continue to experience permanent erosion of our customer base, market share and sales. We have completed construction of facilities to produce Bicillin® at our Rochester, Michigan location. We began commercial production of BicillinLA® and began shipping this product to our customers during the fourth quarter of 2006. We expect to begin commercial production of BicillinCR® during the third quarter of 2007. The third-party manufacturer that produced Bicillin® for us closed its plant. If our inventory of BicillinCR® is not sufficient to sustain demand while we are obtaining regulatory authorizations or experience production difficulties at our Bicillin® manufacturing facility, sales of this product may be reduced or the market for the product may be permanently diminished, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For the last twelve months ended December 31, 2006, net sales of Bicillin® were $42.8 million, representing 2.2% of our total revenues. We are currently working to expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI®. We cannot assure you that our plans to expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI® will be successful and/or timely. If we cannot successfully and timely expand our production capacity for Thrombin-JMI®, our ability to increase production of Thrombin-JMI® will be limited, which could in turn limit our unit sales growth for this product. Sales of Thrombin-JMI® may be affected by the perception of risks associated with some of the raw materials used in its manufacture; if we are unable to successfully maintain purification procedures at our facilities that are in accordance with the FDA’s expectations for biological products generally, the FDA could limit our ability to manufacture biological products at those facilities. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, our product Thrombin-JMI® accounted for 12.4% of our total revenues from continuing operations. The source material for Thrombin-JMI® comes from bovine plasma and lung tissue which has been certified by the United States Department of Agriculture for use in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. Bovine-sourced materials, particularly those from outside the United States, may be of some concern because of potential transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or “BSE.” However, we have taken precautions to minimize the risks of contamination from BSE in our source materials. Our principal precaution is the use of bovine materials only from FDA-approved sources in the United States. Accordingly, all source animals used in our production of Thrombin-JMI® are of United States origin. Additionally, source animals used in production of Thrombin-JMI® are generally less than 18 months of age (BSE has not been identified in animals less than 30 months of age). We have two approved vendors as sources of supply of the bovine raw materials. Any interruption or delay in the supply of these materials could adversely affect the sales of Thrombin-JMI®. We will continue surveillance of the source and believe that the risk of BSE contamination in the source materials for Thrombin-JMI® is very low. While we believe that our procedures and those of our vendor for the supply, testing and handling of the bovine material comply with all federal, state, and local regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. There are high levels of global public concern about BSE. Physicians could determine not to administer Thrombin-JMI® because of the perceived risk, which could adversely affect our sales of the product. Any injuries resulting from BSE contamination could expose us to extensive liability. Also, there is currently no alternative to the bovine-sourced materials for Thrombin-JMI®. If public concern for the risk of BSE infection in the United States should increase, the manufacture and sale of Thrombin-JMI® and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents The FDA expects manufacturers of biological products to have validated processes capable of removing extraneous viral contaminants to a high level of assurance. As a result, many manufacturers of biologics are currently engaged in developing procedures to remove potential extraneous viral contaminants from their products. We have developed and implemented appropriate processing steps to achieve maximum assurance for the removal of potential extraneous viral contaminants from Thrombin-JMI®, which does not include BSE because it is not a viral contaminant and we gained FDA approval for these processes. If we are unable to successfully maintain these processing steps in accordance with the FDA’s expectations, the manufacture and sale of Thrombin-JMI® and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Further, our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data affects our ability to estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenue, may vary from quarter to quarter due to many factors. Sales to wholesalers and distributors represent a substantial portion of our total sales. Buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors may vary from time to time. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase, customers may order pharmaceutical products in larger than normal quantities. The ordering of excess quantities in any quarter could cause sales of some of our branded pharmaceutical products to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. As part of our ongoing efforts to facilitate improved management of wholesale inventory levels of our branded pharmaceutical products, we have entered into inventory management and data services agreements with each of our three key wholesale customers and other wholesale customers. These agreements provide wholesalers incentives to manage inventory levels and provide timely and accurate data with respect to inventory levels held, and valuable data regarding sales and marketplace activity. We rely on the timeliness and accuracy of the data that each customer provides to us on a regular basis pursuant to these agreements. If our wholesalers fail to provide us with timely and accurate data in accordance with the agreements, our estimates for certain reserves included in our financial statements could be materially and adversely affected. Other factors that may affect quarterly results include, but are not limited to, expenditures related to the acquisition, sale and promotion of pharmaceutical products, a changing customer base, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, new products introduced by us or our competitors, the mix of products we sell, sales and marketing expenditures, product recalls, competitive pricing pressures and general economic and industry conditions that may affect customer demand. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our profitability or avoiding losses in any future period. If we are unable to obtain approval of an HFA propellant for Intal®, our sales of this product could be adversely affected. Under government regulations, chlorofluorocarbon compounds are being phased out because of environmental concerns. Our Intal® product currently uses these compounds as propellants. The FDA has issued an approvable letter with respect to the new drug application, or “NDA,” covering a new inhaler for Intal® using the alternative propellant HFA. The approvable letter provides that final approval of the NDA for Intal® HFA is subject to addressing certain FDA comments solely pertaining to the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls section of the NDA covering the product. In the event we cannot also obtain final approval for alternative propellants for Intal® before the final phase-out date for use of chlorofluorocarbon compounds or if we are unable to maintain an adequate supply of chlorofluorocarbon compounds for the production of these products prior to this date, our ability to market and sell this product could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Our relationships with the U.S. Department of Defense and other government entities subject us to risks associated with doing business with the government. All U.S. government contracts provide that they may be terminated for the convenience of the government as well as for default. Our Meridian Medical Technologies segment has pharmaceutical products that are presently sold primarily to the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) under an Industrial Base Maintenance Contract (“IBMC”). The current IBMC expires in July 2007. Although we have reason to believe the DoD will renew the IBMC based on our relationship of many years, we cannot assure you that they will. In the event the DoD does not renew the IBMC, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the unexpected termination of one or more of our significant government contracts could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A surge capability provision allows for the coverage of defense mobilization requirements in the event of rapid military deployment. If this surge capability provision becomes operative, we may be required to devote more of our Meridian Medical Technologies segment manufacturing capacity to the production of products for the government, which could result in less manufacturing capacity being devoted to products in this segment with higher profit margins. Our supply contracts with the DoD are subject to post-award audit and potential price determination. These audits may include a review of our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Therefore, a post-award audit or price redetermination could result in an adjustment to our revenues. From time to time the DoD makes claims for pricing adjustments with respect to completed contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Other risks involved in government sales include the unpredictability in funding for various government programs and the risks associated with changes in procurement policies and priorities. Reductions in defense budgets may result in reductions in our revenues. We also provide our nerve agent antidote auto-injectors to a number of state agencies and local communities for homeland defense against chemical agent terrorist attacks. Changes in governmental and agency procurement policies and priorities may also result in a reduction in government funding for programs involving our auto-injectors. A loss in government funding of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our shareholder rights plan, charter and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include • a classified Board of Directors; • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Tennessee laws, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. 27 Table of Contents At times, our stock price has been volatile, and such volatility in the future could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our common stock has at times been volatile. The stock market in general and the market for the securities of emerging pharmaceutical companies such as King, in particular, have experienced extreme volatility. Many factors contribute to this volatility, including • variations in our results of operations; • perceived risks and uncertainties concerning our business; • announcements of earnings; • developments in the governmental investigations or derivative litigation; • the commencement of, or adverse developments in, any material litigation; • failure to meet timelines for product development or other projections or forward-looking statements we may make to the public; • failure to meet or exceed security analysts’ financial projections for our company; • comments or recommendations made by securities analysts; • general market conditions; • perceptions about market conditions in the pharmaceutical industry; • announcements of technological innovations or the results of clinical trials or studies; • changes in marketing, product pricing and sales strategies or development of new products by us or our competitors; • changes in domestic or foreign governmental regulations or regulatory approval processes; and • announcements concerning regulatory compliance and government agency reviews. The volatility of our common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on our shareholders than would a less volatile stock. In addition, such volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a shareholder’s holdings of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure to comply with laws and government regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Virtually all of our activities are regulated by federal and state statutes and government agencies. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, or “DEA,” the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), as well as by foreign governments in countries where we distribute some of our products. Failure to comply with the policies or requirements established by these agencies could subject us to enforcement actions or other consequences. For example, noncompliance with applicable FDA policies or requirements could subject us to suspensions of manufacturing or distribution, seizure of products, product recalls, fines, criminal penalties, injunctions, failure to approve pending drug product applications or withdrawal of product marketing approvals. Similar civil or criminal penalties could be imposed by other government agencies, such as the DEA, the EPA or various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are manufactured, sold or distributed, and could have ramifications for our contracts with government agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense. 28 Table of Contents All manufacturers of human pharmaceutical products are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act (the “FDC Act”), or the Public Health Service Act (the “PHS Act”), or both. New drugs, as defined in the FDC Act, and new human biological drugs, as defined in the PHS Act, must be the subject of an FDA-approved new drug or biologic license application before they may be marketed in the United States. Some prescription and other drugs are not the subject of an approved marketing application but, rather, are marketed subject to the FDA’s regulatory discretion and/or enforcement policies. We manufacture some pharmaceutical products containing controlled substances and, therefore, are also subject to statutes and regulations enforced by the DEA and similar state agencies which impose security, record keeping, reporting and personnel requirements on us. Additionally, we manufacture biological drug products for human use and are subject to regulatory obligations as a result of these aspects of our business. There are additional FDA and other regulatory policies and requirements covering issues, such as advertising, commercially distributing, selling, sampling and reporting adverse events associated with our products, with which we must continuously comply. The FDA has the authority and discretion to withdraw existing marketing approvals and to review the regulatory status of marketed products at any time. For example, the FDA may require withdrawal of an approved marketing application for any drug product marketed if new information reveals questions about a drug’s safety or efficacy. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices and drug products subject to an approved application must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the approved application. While we believe that all of our currently marketed pharmaceutical products comply with FDA enforcement policies, have approval pending or have received the requisite agency approvals, our marketing is subject to challenge by the FDA at any time. Through various enforcement mechanisms, the FDA can ensure that noncomplying drugs are no longer marketed and that advertising and marketing materials and campaigns are in compliance with FDA regulations. In addition, modifications, enhancements, or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy FDA review process. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers are continually subject to inspection by governmental agencies. Manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in any of those facilities if a government or regulatory authority is unsatisfied with the results of an inspection. Any interruptions of this type could result in materially reduced sales of our products or increased manufacturing costs. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, “CERCLA,” the EPA can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of contaminated properties upon each or any of the current and former site owners, site operators or parties who sent waste to the site, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. In addition, many states, including Tennessee, Michigan, Wisconsin, Florida and Missouri, have statutes and regulatory authorities similar to CERCLA and to the EPA. We have entered into hazardous waste hauling agreements with licensed third parties to properly dispose of hazardous wastes. We cannot assure you that we will not be found liable under CERCLA or other applicable state statutes or regulations for the costs of undertaking a cleanup at a site to which our wastes were transported. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, enforcement positions, statutes or legal interpretations, when and if promulgated, adopted or enacted, may have on our business in the future. These changes could, among other things, require modifications to our manufacturing methods or facilities, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. These changes, new legislation, or failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An increase in product liability claims or product recalls could harm our business. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our technologies or products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. These risks exist for products in clinical development and with respect to products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. While 29 Table of Contents we have taken, and will continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. We currently have product liability insurance, however, we cannot assure you that the level or breadth of any insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. For example, we are now not able to obtain product liability insurance with respect to certain of our women’s healthcare products. With respect to any product liability claims relating to these products, we could be responsible for any monetary damages awarded by any court or any voluntary monetary settlements. Significant judgments against us for product liability for which we have no insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product recalls or product field alerts may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA, other government agencies or other companies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical product sales. From time to time, we may recall products for various reasons, including failure of our products to maintain their stability through their expiration dates. Any recall or product field alert has the potential of damaging the reputation of the product or our reputation. To date, these recalls have not been significant and have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, we cannot assure you that the number and significance of recalls will not increase in the future. Any significant recalls could materially affect our sales and the prescription trends for the products and damage the reputation of the products or our reputation. In these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could be required to pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medicaid reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and in certain respects ambiguous. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our processes for estimating amounts due under Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions, and, as a result, these calculations will remain subject to the risk of errors. The insolvency of any of our principal customers, who are wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As with most other pharmaceutical companies, our principal customers are primarily wholesale pharmaceutical distributors. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has in recent years been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased our, and other industry participants’, customer concentration. Accordingly, three key customers accounted for approximately 74% of our gross sales and a significant portion of our accounts receivable for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The insolvency of any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any reduction in reimbursement levels by managed care organizations or other third-party payors may have an adverse effect on our revenues. Commercial success in producing, marketing and selling branded prescription pharmaceutical products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party health care payors, such as the government, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging whether to reimburse certain pharmaceutical products and medical services. For example, many managed health care organizations limit reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. These limits may take the form of formularies with differential co-pay tiers. The resulting competition among pharmaceutical companies to maximize their product reimbursement has generally reduced growth in average selling prices across the industry. We cannot assure you that our products will be appropriately reimbursed or included on the 30 Table of Contents formulary lists of managed care organizations or any or all Medicare Part D plans, or that downward pricing pressures in the industry generally will not negatively impact our operations. We have addressed our contract relationship with managed care organizations in an effort to increase the attractiveness of reimbursements for our products. We take reserves for the estimated amounts of rebates we will pay to managed care and government organizations each quarter. Any increased usage of our products through Medicaid, Medicare, or managed care programs will increase the amount of rebates that we owe. We cannot assure you that our products will be included on the formulary lists of managed care or Medicare organizations or that adverse reimbursement issues will not result in materially lower revenues. If we fail to comply with the safe harbors provided under various federal and state laws, our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to include, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors” or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. We seek to comply with these safe harbors. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly (in the civil context), or knowingly and willfully (in the criminal context), presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicaid and Medicare) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicaid and Medicare. Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the future, the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials may adversely affect the sales of our products or the values of the intangible assets associated with them. From time to time studies or clinical trials on various aspects of pharmaceutical products are conducted by academics or others, including government agencies, the results of which, when published, may have dramatic effects on the markets for the pharmaceutical products that are the subject of the study, or those of related or similar products. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete could adversely affect our sales, the prescription trends for our products and the reputation of our products. In the event of the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our branded pharmaceutical products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete, sales of these products may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, potential write-offs of the intangible assets associated with the affected products could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New legislation or regulatory proposals may adversely affect our revenues. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, including the cost of prescription products, importation and reimportation of prescription products from countries outside the United States and changes in the levels at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products, have been proposed. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals may have on our business, these proposals, as well as the adoption of any other proposals, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives could decrease the price we 31 Table of Contents receive for our products. Additionally, sales of our products in the United States could be adversely affected by the importation of products that some may deem to be equivalent to ours that are manufactured by others and are available outside the United States. Many states have implemented or are in the process of implementing regulations requiring pharmaceutical companies to provide them with certain marketing and pricing information. While we intend to comply with these regulations, we are unable at this time to predict or estimate the effect of these regulations, if any. A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts that are not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. These statements are contained in the “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections, as well as other sections of this report. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: • the future potential of, including anticipated net sales and prescription trends for our branded pharmaceutical products, particularly Altace®, Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, Sonata® and Levoxyl®; • expectations regarding the enforceability and effectiveness of product-related patents, including in particular patents related to Altace®, Skelaxin®, Sonata® and Adenoscan®; • expected trends and projections with respect to particular products, reportable segment and income and expense line items; • the timeliness and accuracy of wholesale inventory data provided by our customers; • the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources; • anticipated capital expenditures; • the development, approval and successful commercialization of Remoxytm, an investigational drug for the treatment of moderate-to-severe chronic pain; binodenoson, our next generation cardiac pharmacologic stress-imaging agent; bremelanotide, an investigational new drug for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction; T-62, an investigational drug for the treatment of neuropathic pain; MRE0094, an investigational drug for the topical treatment of chronic diabetic foot ulcers; the development of a new formulation of Skelaxin®; pre-clinical programs; and product life-cycle development projects; • the development, approval and successful commercialization of a diazepam-filled auto-injector, new inhaler for Intal® using the alternative propellant HFA, and an Altace®/diuretic combination product; • our expectation that we will be in a position to launch an Altace® tablet formulation during the fourth quarter of 2007 or the first quarter of 2008; • the ability to obtain a supply of Sonata® sufficient to meet market demand; • our successful execution of our growth strategies; • anticipated developments and expansions of our business; • our plans for the manufacture of some of our products, including but not limited to, the anticipated expansion of our manufacturing capacity for Thrombin-JMI®; • anticipated increases in sales of acquired products or royalty revenues; 32 Table of Contents • the success of our Amended and Restated Co-Promotion Agreement with Wyeth; • the high cost and uncertainty of research, clinical trials and other development activities involving pharmaceutical products; • the development of product line extensions; • the unpredictability of the duration or future findings and determinations of the FDA, including the pending applications related to our diazepam-filled auto-injector and a new Intal® inhaler formulation utilizing HFA, and other regulatory agencies worldwide; • products developed, acquired or in-licensed that may be commercialized; • the intent, belief or current expectations, primarily with respect to our future operating performance; • expectations regarding sales growth, gross margins, manufacturing productivity, capital expenditures and effective tax rates; • expectations regarding the outcome of various pending legal proceedings including the Altace® and Skelaxin® patent challenges, the SEC investigation, other possible governmental investigations, securities litigation, and other legal proceedings described in this report; and • expectations regarding our financial condition and liquidity as well as future cash flows and earnings. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements. These known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in detail in the “Risk Factors” section and in other sections of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 