Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS We have a history of operating losses, and there is no assurance that we will maintain profitability in the future. The Company has a history of operating losses. We have sustained operating losses of $1,098, $3,794 and $2,947 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We cannot predict if we will generate profitable operations in the future. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our securities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. The Company provides services to customers over access lines. If access lines decline, operating results may be adversely affected. The Company’s business generates revenues by delivering voice, video and data services over access lines. The Company continues to experience access line losses due to competition from wireless and broadband service providers. The Company may continue to experience access line losses in its primary markets. The Company’s inability to retain access lines could adversely affect the business and results of operations. The Company is subject to competition that may adversely impact it. As an ILEC, the Company historically had little competition in its markets. As a direct result of deregulation, the Company now faces direct competition in its traditional ILEC territories by CLEC operations and other providers of telecommunications services that offer comparable voice, video and data products. The primary competitor in our market has brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, consolidations and strategic alliances presently occurring within the telecommunications industry, as well as ongoing technological innovation, are likely to affect our competitive position. The Company cannot predict the number of competitors that will ultimately emerge, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business. The ongoing auction of 6 Table of Contents new frequenciens for wireless transmissions may increase the number or change the nature of the company’s competitors. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, the development of new types of content, frequent new service offerings and a changing regulatory and economic environment. The Company cannot predict the changes in our competitive position or profitability. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require significant expenditures of capital to upgrade and or replace outdated technologies. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments in the industry may reduce the attractiveness of our products and services. If the Company fails to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence, or fails to obtain access to important new technologies or content, the Company could lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. For this reason, the Company has developed video offerings and is planning to introduce a VoIP product. A key element to the Company’s long-term growth strategy is its ability to deliver new and enhanced products and services to its customers. The successful delivery of new products and services is uncertain and dependent on many factors. There is no guarantee that delivery of these services will generate the anticipated increase in customers and revenues. The Company’s relationships with other communications companies are material to its operations. The Company originates and terminates calls for long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network and for that service the Company receives payments for access charges. These payments represent a significant portion of our revenues. Should these carriers go bankrupt or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to collect access charges from them could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. The need for increased capital improvements to upgrade or expand the Orange County-Poughkeepsie Limited Partnership (“O-P”) facilities or a decrease in demand for its services or continued competitive pressure on its rates could cause the O-P’s profitability to decline and could thereby reduce the income that the Company derives from those profits. The Company receives quarterly cash distributions from O-P, which comprises a substantial percentage of the Company’s operating income and operating cash flow. O-P distributions are made at the discretion of the O-P general partner. The failure of the general partner to make a cash distribution to the limited partners in any quarter would have a significant negative impact on our business. The Company is subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner that is adverse to the Company’s interests, or could remain in effect in a fashion that impedes the Company’s ability to compete. The Company operates in a heavily regulated industry. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues generally have been supported by regulations that provide for local and network access revenues and USF funds. The USF is under pressure as ILECs lose access lines and competitors seek to receive monies from the USF, and as a result, changes in the funding and/or payout rules for the USF might further reduce our revenues obtained from the USF. Reforms of the USF are the subject of pending legislation in Congress. The Company cannot predict the level of USF funding we will receive in the future as a result of USF reforms. Proposed USF reforms may have a significant negative impact on our business. Laws and regulations applicable to the Company and its competitors have, from time to time, been challenged in the courts, and could be changed by the FCC or state regulators. On February 10, 2005, the FCC adopted a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing inter-carrier compensation. Proposed inter-carrier compensation changes, such as “bill and keep” (under which switched access charges and reciprocal compensation would be reduced or eliminated), could reduce our access revenues. No decision or resolution of inter-carrier compensation has yet been forthcoming, and the Company cannot predict the impact of such decision or resolution. Regulatory changes could adversely impact the rates the Company is permitted to charge its customers, reduce payments to the Company from the USF or restrict the Company’s ability to effectively compete in the market place. Regulatory changes could also restrict the Company’s ability to secure new sources of capital and or grow through 7 Table of Contents strategic acquisitions or alliances. In addition, the failure of regulations to change in a manner that would establish an environment in which the Company may compete on more even terms with its actual economic competitors could also adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Our business could be adversely impacted by deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires the Company to evaluate, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot provide reliable and accurate financial reports and prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. In connection with the evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company identified material weaknesses, and may discover in the future, areas of its internal control that need improvement. Our efforts regarding internal controls are discussed in detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007 under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that they will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Remedying the material weaknesses that have been identified, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in the future, could require us to incur additional costs, divert management resources or make other changes. We have not yet remediated all the material weaknesses described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007 under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” If we do not remedy these material weaknesses, we will be required to report in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or in subsequent reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission that material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting continue to exist. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weaknesses, any failure to remediate such material weaknesses in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There were no unresolved staff comments as of December 31, 2007 that had been made not less than 180 days prior to this date. 