ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Several of the matters discussed in this document contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors associated with the forward-looking statements that could cause actual results to differ from those projected or forecast are included in the statements below. In addition to other information contained in this report, readers should carefully consider the following cautionary statements and risk factors. 8 We may not be able to refinance or extend our debt facility due at June 30, 2010 and if we cannot we will default on our credit agreement, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business and operations and ability to continue as a going concern. Our cash flows from operating activities will not be sufficient to repay our obligations under the CVC debt facility which will become due and payable in full on June 30, 2010. Accordingly an extension or modification of the CVC debt will be required prior to the due date or it will be necessary for us to raise additional debt or equity financing in order to repay the CVC debt. If we cannot obtain an extension or modification of the CVC debt, or raise additional equity or debt to satisfy this requirement we will default on our credit agreement and the lender would have the right to exercise its remedies including enforcement of its lien on substantially all of our assets. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may not be able to execute our operating plans, or meet our debt obligations either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and affect our ability to operate as a going concern. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We will need to raise additional capital or refinance our existing debt structure to meet our current and long term needs. We have historically satisfied our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations. As we continue to expand globally in response to the industry trend to outsource apparel manufacturing to offshore locations, our foreign customers, some of which are backed by U.S. brands and retailers, represent substantially all of our customers. Our revolving credit facility provides limited financing secured by our accounts receivable, and our current borrowing capability may not provide the level of financing we need to continue in or to expand into additional foreign markets. We are continuing to evaluate non-traditional financing alternatives and equity transactions to provide capital needed to fund our expansion and operations. Even if we are able to refinance or restructure our existing credit facility, if we experience greater than anticipated reductions in sales, we may need to raise additional capital, or further reduce the scope of our business in order to fully satisfy our future short-term liquidity requirements. If we cannot raise additional capital or reduce the scope of our business in response to a substantial decline in sales, we may default on our credit agreement. The extent of our future long-term capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our results of operations, future demand for our products, the size and timing of future acquisitions, our borrowing base availability limitations related to eligible accounts receivable and inventories and our expansion into foreign markets. Our need for additional long-term financing includes the integration and expansion of our operations to maximize the opportunities of our Talon trade name, and the expansion of our operations in Asia, Europe and Central America. If our cash from operations is less than anticipated or our working capital requirements and capital expenditures are greater than we expect, we may need to raise additional debt or equity financing in order to provide for our operations. We are continually evaluating various financing strategies to be used to expand our business and fund future growth or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to secure additional financing, we may not be able to execute our plans for expansion and we may need to implement additional cost savings initiatives. 9 We may not be able to satisfy the financial covenants in our debt agreements and if we cannot, then our lender could declare the debt obligations in default, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, business and operations. Our revolving credit and term loan agreement requires certain covenants, including a minimum level of EBITDA as discussed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to satisfy the EBITDA covenant in three consecutive quarters, the credit agreement will be in default and can be declared immediately due and payable by the lender. In anticipation of not being able to meet required covenants due to various reasons, we either negotiate for changes in the relative covenants or negotiate a waiver with the lender. However, our expectations of future operating results and continued compliance with all debt covenants cannot be assured and our lender’s actions are not controllable by us. If we are in default under the loan agreement, all amounts due under the loan agreement can be declared immediately due and payable and, unless we are able to secure alternative financing to repay the lender in full, the lender would have the right to exercise its remedies including enforcement of its lien on substantially all of our assets. Further, if the debt is placed in default, we would be required to reduce our expenses, including curtailing operations and to raise capital through the sale of assets, issuance of equity or otherwise, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and affect our ability to operate as a going concern. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding going concern. The ongoing U.S. and global financial and economic uncertainties could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets. Certain apparel manufacturers and retailers, including some of our customers may experience financial difficulties that increase the risk of extending credit to such customers. Customers adversely affected by economic conditions have also attempted to improve their own operating efficiencies by concentrating their purchasing power among a narrowing group of suppliers. There can be no assurance that we will remain a preferred supplier to our existing customers. A decrease in business from or loss of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, which are served by many of our largest customers. Consumer spending has remained depressed in early 2010 after deteriorating significantly in 2008 and 2009, and it may remain depressed or be subject to further deterioration for the foreseeable future. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of fashion apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income declines. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, or maintain our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by sustained or further downward trends in the United States or global economy. 10 The loss of key management and sales personnel could adversely affect our business, including our ability to obtain and secure accounts and generate sales. Our success has and will continue to depend to a significant extent upon key management and sales personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to establish and maintain client relationships. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain personnel with a variety of sales, operating and managerial skills. As described above, our credit facility with CVC becomes due on June 30, 2010, and we will not have sufficient cash to repay our obligations to CVC. Unless and until we are able to reach an agreement to refinance or restructure the debt, the uncertainty created by this situation may make it more difficult to retain our key management personnel. The current global credit crisis has increased our credit risks with vendors and customers. We extend credit to some vendors by supplying them products. If any of these vendors are unable to honor their commitments to us, due to bankruptcy, cessation of operations or otherwise, we will likely experience losses on the products we provided and lose profit margins on the unshipped orders. Most of our customers are extended credit terms which are approved by us internally. While we have attempted to cover as much of our credit risks as possible, not all of our risks can be fully hedged due to the current credit crisis. Such exposure may translate into losses should there be any adverse changes to the financial condition of certain customers. Our operating results in our Tekfit product group could be adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in resolving a dispute that now exists regarding our rights under our exclusive license and intellectual property agreement with Pro-Fit. Pursuant to our agreement with Pro-Fit Holdings, Limited, we have exclusive rights in certain geographic areas to Pro-Fit’s stretch and rigid waistband technology. We are in litigation with Pro-Fit regarding our rights. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for discussion of this litigation. Our business in this product group, and our future results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to reach a settlement in a manner acceptable to us and ensuing litigation is not resolved in a manner favorable to us. Additionally, we have incurred significant legal fees in this litigation, and unless the case is settled, we could continue to incur additional legal fees in increasing amounts to protect our license position. If we lose our larger customers or they fail to purchase at anticipated levels, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected. Our results of operations will depend to a significant extent upon the commercial success of our larger customers. If these customers fail to purchase our products at anticipated levels, or our relationship with these customers or the retailers they serve terminates, it may have an adverse effect on our results because: · We will lose a primary source of revenue if these customers choose not to purchase our products or services; · We may lose the specific nomination of the retailer or brand; · We may not be able to reduce fixed costs incurred in developing the relationship with these customers in a timely manner; · We may not be able to recoup setup and inventory costs; · We may be left holding inventory that cannot be sold to other customers; and · We may not be able to collect our receivables from them. 11 If customers default on inventory purchase commitments with us, we will be left holding non-salable inventory. We hold inventories for specific customer programs, which the customers have committed to purchase. If any customer defaults on these commitments, or insists on markdowns, we may incur a charge in connection with our holding non-salable inventory and this would have a negative impact on our operations and cash flow. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers, we may not be able to always obtain materials when we need them and we may lose sales and customers. Lead times for materials we order can vary significantly and depend on many factors, including the specific supplier, the contract terms and the demand for particular materials at a given time. From time to time, we may experience fluctuations in the prices and disruptions in the supply of materials. Shortages or disruptions in the supply of materials, or our inability to procure materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could lead us to miss deadlines for orders and lose sales and customers. Our products may not comply with various industry and governmental regulations and our customers may incur losses in their products or operations as a consequence of our non-compliance. Our products are produced under strict supervision and controls to ensure that all materials and manufacturing processes comply with the industry and governmental regulations governing the markets in which these products are sold. However, if these controls fail to detect or prevent non-compliant materials from entering the manufacturing process, our products could cause damages to our customer’s products or processes and could also result in fines being incurred. The possible damages and fines could significantly exceed the value of our products and these risks may not be covered by our insurance policies. We operate in an industry that is subject to significant fluctuations in operating results that may result in unexpected reductions in revenue and stock price volatility. We operate in an industry that is subject to significant fluctuations in operating results from quarter to quarter, which may lead to unexpected reductions in revenues and stock price volatility. Factors that may influence our quarterly operating results include: · The volume and timing of customer orders received during the quarter; · The timing and magnitude of customers’ marketing campaigns; · The loss or addition of a major customer or of a major retailer nomination; · The availability and pricing of materials for our products; · The increased expenses incurred in connection with the introduction of new products; · Currency fluctuations; · Delays caused by third parties; and · Changes in our product mix or in the relative contribution to sales of our subsidiaries. Due to these factors, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results may be below our stockholders’ expectations and those of public market analysts. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. In October 2005, a securities class action lawsuit was filed against us. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a detailed description of this lawsuit which is now settled. 12 The outcome of any litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are defendants in various litigation matters. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in each and all of the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and we intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. We maintain product liability and director and officer insurance that we regard as reasonably adequate to protect us from potential claims; however we cannot assure you that it will be adequate to cover any losses. Further, the costs of insurance have increased dramatically in recent years, and the availability of coverage has decreased. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current levels of insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our customers have cyclical buying patterns which may cause us to have periods of low sales volume. Most of our customers are in the apparel industry. The apparel industry historically has been subject to substantial cyclical variations. Our business has experienced, and we expect our business to continue to experience, significant cyclical fluctuations due, in part, to customer buying patterns, which may result in periods of low sales usually in the first and fourth quarters of our financial year. Backlogs of sales orders are not considered material in the industries in which we compete, which reduces the predictability and reinforces the volatility of these cyclical buying patterns on our sales volume. Our business model is dependent on integration of information systems on a global basis and, to the extent that we fail to maintain and support our information systems, it can result in lost revenues. We must consolidate and centralize the management of our subsidiaries and significantly expand and improve our financial and operating controls. Additionally, we must effectively integrate the information systems of our worldwide operations with the information systems of our principal offices in California. Our failure to do so could result in lost revenues, delay financial reporting or have adverse effects on the information reported. If we experience disruptions at any of our foreign facilities, we will not be able to meet our obligations and may lose sales and customers. Currently, we do not operate duplicate facilities in different geographic areas. Therefore, in the event of a regional disruption where we maintain one or more of our facilities, it is unlikely that we could shift our operations to a different geographic region and we may have to cease or curtail our operations. This may cause us to lose sales and customers. The types of disruptions that may occur include: · Foreign trade disruptions; · Import restrictions; · Labor disruptions; · Embargoes; · Government intervention; · Natural disasters; or · Regional pandemics. 13 Internet-based systems that we rely upon for our order tracking and management systems may experience disruptions and as a result we may lose revenues and customers. To the extent that we fail to adequately update and maintain the hardware and software implementing our integrated systems, our customers may be delayed or interrupted due to defects in our hardware or our source code. In addition, since our software is Internet-based, interruptions in Internet service generally can negatively impact our ability to use our systems to monitor and manage various aspects of our customer’s trim needs. Such defects or interruptions could result in lost revenues and lost customers. There are many companies that offer some or all of the products and services we sell and if we are unable to successfully compete, our business will be adversely affected. We compete in highly competitive and fragmented industries with numerous local and regional companies that provide some or all of the products and services we offer. We compete with national and international design companies, distributors and manufacturers of tags, packaging products, zippers and other trim items. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and greater financial and other resources than we do. Unauthorized use of our proprietary technology may increase our litigation costs and adversely affect our sales. We rely on trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our designs and other proprietary property worldwide. We cannot be certain that these laws will be sufficient to protect our property. In particular, the laws of some countries in which our products are distributed or may be distributed in the future may not protect our products and intellectual rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If litigation is necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Ultimately, we may be unable, for financial or other reasons, to enforce our rights under intellectual property laws, which could result in lost sales. If our products infringe any other person’s proprietary rights, we may be sued and have to pay legal expenses and judgments and redesign or discontinue selling our products. From time to time in our industry, third parties allege infringement of their proprietary rights. Any infringement claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements as a means of settlement. If we are found to have infringed the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to pay damages, cease sales of the infringing products and redesign the products or discontinue their sale. Any of these outcomes, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Counterfeit products are not uncommon in the apparel industry and our customers may make claims against us for products we have not produced adversely impacting us by these false claims. Counterfeiting of valuable trade names is commonplace in the apparel industry and while there are industries organizations and federal laws designed to protect the brand owner, these counterfeit products are not always detected and it can be difficult to prove the manufacturing source of these products. Accordingly, we may be adversely affected if counterfeit products damage our relationships with customers, and we incur costs to prove these products are counterfeit, to defend ourselves against false claims and to pay for false claims. 14 During the second quarter of 2009 it was discovered that certain Chinese factories had counterfeited Talon zippers in conjunction with certain of our former employees, and sold these products to existing and potential customers. We have initiated efforts to eliminate and prosecute all offenders. Counterfeiting of known quality brand products is commonplace within China and in particular where retailers limit their sources to recognized brands such as Talon. The full extent of counterfeiting of Talon products, its effect on our business operations and the costs to investigate and eliminate this activity are ongoing and are generally undeterminable. However based upon evidence available we believe the impact is not significant to our current overall operations. We continue to work closely with major retailers to identify these activities within the marketplace and will aggressively combat these efforts worldwide to protect the Talon brand. We have experienced and may continue to experience major fluctuations in the market price for our common stock. The following factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease, perhaps substantially: · The failure of our quarterly operating results to meet expectations of investors or securities analysts; · Adverse developments in the financial markets, the apparel industry and the worldwide or regional economies; · Interest rates; · Changes in accounting principles; · Intellectual property and legal matters; · Sales of common stock by existing shareholders or holders of options; · Announcements of key developments by our competitors; · Changed perceptions about our ability to renegotiate or replace our credit and revolving term loan agreement before maturity at June 30, 2010; and · The reaction of markets and securities analysts to announcements and developments involving our company. If we need to sell or issue additional shares of common stock or assume additional debt to finance future growth, our stockholders’ ownership could be diluted or our earnings could be adversely impacted. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth, by acquiring complementary businesses or by establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so or to fund our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders’ value. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses to our intangible assets if we acquire another company. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. We may consider strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise, subject to the obtaining of any necessary financing. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including diversion of our management’s attention away from our operating activities. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter unanticipated problems or liabilities relating to the integration of an acquired company’s operations, nor can we assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions. 15 Back to Index to Form 10-K Our actual tax liabilities may differ from estimated tax resulting in unfavorable adjustments to our future results. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. Our estimate of the potential outcome of uncertain tax issues is subject to our assessment of relevant risks, facts and circumstances existing at that time. Our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, which may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results. We have adopted a number of anti-takeover measures that may depress the price of our common stock. Our stockholders’ rights plan, our ability to issue additional shares of preferred stock and some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to make an unsolicited takeover attempt of us. These anti-takeover measures may depress the price of our common stock by making it more difficult for third parties to acquire us by offering to purchase shares of our stock at a premium to its market price. Insiders own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. As of March 29, 2010, our officers and directors and their affiliates owned approximately 19.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. The Dyne family, which includes Mark Dyne and Colin Dyne, who are also our directors, and Larry Dyne who is our President; beneficially owned approximately 13.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 29, 2010. Additionally, at March 29, 2010, CVC California, LLC, our lender, beneficially owned approximately 8.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, our lender, officers and directors and the Dyne family are able to exert considerable influence over the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including the election of our Board of Directors. The voting power of these stockholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of us through the purchase of our common stock, which might depress the price of our common stock. We may face interruption of production and services due to increased security measures in response to terrorism. Our business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. In response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation, mail, financial and other services may be slowed or stopped altogether. Extensive delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential delays. We may also experience delays in receiving payments from payers that have been affected by the terrorist activities. The United States economy in general may be adversely affected by the terrorist activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect our ability to grow our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 Back to Index to Form 10-K 