Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS We have a history of operating losses and there is no assurance we will generate profits in the future. We have a history of operating losses. We have sustained operating losses of $11,589, $8,671 and $4,329 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We cannot predict if we will generate profitable operations in the future. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. We have a proud history of paying dividends on our common stock since 1907. We anticipate that we will continue to pay cash dividends in the future. However, the amount and timing of future dividend payments is subject to applicable law and will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors based on factors such as our cash flow and cash requirements, necessary capital expenditures, financial condition and other factors. We provide services to customers over access lines. If access lines continue to decline, our operating results may be adversely affected. Our business generates revenues by delivering voice, video and data services over access lines. We continue to experience access line losses due to competition from wireless and broadband service providers. For example, access lines declined 8% in 2011, 12% in 2010 and 10% in 2009. We may continue to experience access line losses in our primary markets. Our inability to retain access lines could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Reductions in USF funding and intercarrier compensation may negatively impact our financial results. Additional regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on our operations as well. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. A significant portion of our revenues generally have been supported by regulations that provide for local and network access revenues and USF funds. Changes in the funding and/or payout rules for the USF will further reduce our revenues obtained from the USF. On November 28, 2011, the FCC released a comprehensive order regarding reform of the Universal Service Fund and Intercarrier Compensation (“ICC”). The order specified that the USF would be renamed the Connect America Fund (“CAF”). Funds from CAF will be allocated with a greater emphasis on stimulating broadband build out in the United States. Additionally, the order mandated a decline in overall revenues deemed interstate. Currently these revenues are received from end users, interexchange carriers and the USF. The total of these revenues will decline 5% a year and the USF or CAF support must decline accordingly. This change will commence on July 1, 2012 and continue annually for the next 10 years. Finally, the order contains a provision that implements a “ceiling” on the amount of corporate overhead expenses that can be recovered by an ILEC through CAF. Historically, the USF fund has allowed ILECs to recover their reasonable costs without restriction. In 2012, a ceiling was established based on corporate overhead cost per access line. Accordingly, we anticipate a significant reduction in funds that we are eligible to receive from the USF. This reduction in USF revenue is expected to significantly impact our revenues and financial results over the next several years. 9 On November 28, 2011, the FCC released a comprehensive order concerning Intercarrier Compensation. The order reflected the FCC’s desire for telephone companies to eventually eliminate intercarrier compensation altogether. To implement this, the FCC has mandated that companies lower their access rates at the intrastate level to the interstate rate level by 2013. In addition, a rate of return carrier, such as us, must reduce its rates for some access elements to zero within nine years. While this will be offset to some extent by additional end user charges (known as ARC or Access Recovery Charge), the overall effect will be a decline in revenue. Additional regulatory changes could adversely impact the rates we are permitted to charge our customers, reduce payments to us from the USF or restrict our ability to effectively compete in the market place. Regulatory changes could also restrict our ability to secure new sources of capital and/or grow through strategic acquisitions or alliances. In addition, the failure of regulations to change in a manner that would establish an environment in which we may compete on more even terms with our actual economic competitors could also adversely affect our profitability. Our acquisitions may not result in the revenue growth and profitability that we expect. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions. In 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Alteva, LLC. We are in the process of integrating this acquisition into our business and assimilating its operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We can provide no assurances that we will achieve the revenue growth and profitability that we expect from this acquisition or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with the integration of this acquisition. To effectively manage our expected growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of this business and continue to improve our operational and information technology systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls to accommodate this acquisition. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. The integration of recent, and future, acquisitions could place an increased burden on our management team, which could adversely impact our ability to effectively manage these businesses. Integrating a new business can be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business and negatively affect cash flow. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill and/or intangible assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. During the past fiscal year, we significantly increased our goodwill as a result of our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Alteva, LLC. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have completed our annual impairment analysis for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, and have concluded that we do not have any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2011. A significant portion of our income is derived from our O-P Limited Partnership. We rely significantly on income derived from our O-P partnership interest. We receive quarterly cash distributions from O-P, which comprises a substantial percentage of our cash flow. On May 26, 2011, the Company entered into an agreement with Verizon Wireless of the East LP, the general partner and a limited partner, and Cellco Partnership, the other limited partner, in the O-P to make certain changes to the O-P partnership agreement which, among other things, specifies that the O-P will provide 4G cellular services (the “4G Agreement”). The 4G Agreement provides that the O-P’s business will be converted from a wholesale business to a retail business. The 4G Agreement provides for guaranteed annual cash distributions to the Company from the O-P through 2013. For 2012 and 2013, the annual cash distribution will be $13,000. Beyond 2013, O-P distributions will be made at the discretion of the O-P general partner. The failure of the general partner to make a cash distribution to the limited partners or decreases in distributions in any quarter would have a significant negative impact on our business. We are subject to competition that may adversely impact us. As an ILEC, we historically faced little competition in our markets. As a direct result of deregulation, we now face direct competition in our traditional ILEC territories by CLEC operations and other providers of telecommunications services that offer comparable voice, video and data products. The primary competitor in our market has brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, consolidations and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, as well as ongoing technological innovation, are likely to affect our competitive position. With increased substitution of wireless for landline services, wireless carriers are now competing aggressively for our voice customers. The UC market is also becoming increasingly competitive as tier one and smaller providers grow more sophisticated in their UC product offerings. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will ultimately emerge, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business. 10 We rely on Internet Protocol (“IP”) licenses to offer our Unified Communication services. Our Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) customers, are primarily based on Broadsoft voice and Microsoft data platform infrastructures. We rely on licenses with Broadsoft and Microsoft to provide our Unified Communication services to customers. If we were unable to continue licensing technology from Broadsoft or Microsoft we would need to transfer our Unified Communication services to a new technology platform. This could disrupt our service, require us to incur significant transition costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Any inability to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets could allow our competitors and others to produce competing products based on our proprietary information. Our success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of our employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to the services we offer. We cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States, and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly software redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the telecommunications industry, much of our Online business and many of our Online products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. In addition, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit our access to telecommunications markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. For instance, on November 1, 2011, Alteva, LLC was sued by Klausner Technologies, Inc. for patent infringement. Although we were not a party to this matter, we purchased from Alteva, LLC the technology that Klausner Technologies, Inc. claimed was infringing its patent. Although we believe this claim to be without merit, we are seeking to settle this matter. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, the development of new types of content, frequent new service offerings and a changing regulatory and economic environment. We cannot predict the changes in our competitive position or profitability. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require significant expenditures of capital to upgrade and/or replace outdated technologies. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments in the industry may reduce the attractiveness of our products and services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence, or fail to obtain access to important new technologies or content, we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. For this reason, we have entered into the UC business. However, even the UC business can be affected by technological change. Our UC business currently depends on the use of desktop telephones and related systems. The rise of social media and soft phones in the future could potentially reduce the use of desktop telephones, which could have an adverse affect on our UC business. A key element of our long-term growth strategy is our ability to deliver new and enhanced products and services to our customers. The successful delivery of new products and services is uncertain and dependent on many factors. There is no guarantee that delivery of these services will generate the anticipated increase in customers and revenues. 11 There is a history of disputes regarding intercarrier billing, which may materially impact our results of operations. We are periodically involved in disputes related to our billings to other carriers for access to our network. In the event that a claim is made related to revenues previously recognized, we assess the validity of the claim and adjust the amount of revenue being recognized to the extent that the claim adjustment is considered probable and estimable. We are, in the ordinary course of business, billed certain charges from other carriers that we believe are either erroneous or relate to prior periods. We carefully review our vendor invoices and dispute inaccurate or inappropriate charges. In cases where we dispute certain charges, we frequently pay only undisputed amounts on vendor invoices. The amount of disputed charges may remain outstanding for some time pending resolution or compromise. We periodically review the outstanding disputes and reassess the likelihood of success in the event of the resolution of these disputes. However, it is possible that the actual settlement of any disputes may be material. In view of the length of time historically required to resolve these disputes, they may be resolved or require adjustment in future periods and relate to billings and or costs invoiced, which were either accrued or paid in prior periods. Risks associated with our unfunded pension and postretirement plan liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, our unfunded pension liability was $7,291 and our unfunded postretirement plan was $2,975. While we believe our current cash position coupled with expected cash management and monitoring of our funds will allow us to adequately fund our pension and our postretirement plans, if the stock market declines significantly or interest rates fluctuate or become volatile, it will be more difficult for us to adequately fund the plans. Weak economic conditions caused a decline in plan assets, which increased pension plan expense and required contributions during 2011, 2010 and 2009. With the subsequent decrease in pension plan assets during 2011 and lower interest rates, our anticipated contribution to the pension plan is expected to increase during 2012. If market conditions result in a decrease in plan assets during 2012, required pension plan contributions may increase in 2013. We need to retain a highly skilled, technologically savvy workforce to compete in Unified Communications. As a result of our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Alteva, LLC, we have entered the Unified Communications business. To succeed as a Unified Communication provider we must retain a highly skilled workforce. Our ability to retain and compete in the Unified Communications industry will require us to attract highly skilled technical personnel. We can provide no assurances that we can recruit this type of personnel. An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could result in greater demands being placed on limited management resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our relationships with other communications companies are material to our operations. We originate and terminate calls for long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network and for that service we receive payments for access charges. These payments represent a significant portion of our revenues. Should these carriers go bankrupt or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to collect access charges from them could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. We depend heavily on our senior management team and the loss of the services of one or more of our key executives could harm our business. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly our chief executive officer or chief operating officer, could significantly harm our business. To this end, we are reviewing our relevant insurance policies and will be seeking key man insurance for Messrs. Albro and Cuthbert. We are currently unsure whether any such policies will be cost prohibitive. In addition, we could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of members of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and reputation may be affected by our ability to keep clients’ information confidential. Our business involves the use of private and confidential customer information, including customer credit card information. This information is critical to us receiving timely payment for our services from customers and may be transmitted to us via the Internet. While we have systems and processes in place to protect this information, there is no guarantee that our systems and processes are adequate to protect against all security breaches. If our systems are disrupted, fail for any reason, or are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, our customers could experience data or financial loss. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulation, investigation and penalties, loss of customers’ business and unfavorable impact to our business reputation, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Weak economic conditions may impact demand for our services. We could realize a change in demand for services due to the ongoing weak economic conditions. Downturns in the economy and continued competition in our markets may cause some of our existing customers to disconnect or scale back basic and enhanced services, broadband Internet or video service, and it may become more difficult for us to acquire new customers. Furthermore, the current weak economic condition may prolong our payment collections interval and in some cases increase our need to discontinue service for nonpayment. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. This item is not applicable. 