D. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In particular, as we are a non-U.S. company, there are risks associated with investing in our ADSs that are not typical for investments in the shares of U.S. companies. Prior to making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the information contained in this document, including the following risk factors. Risk Factors Relating to our Company LATAM does not control the voting shares or board of directors of TAM Following the combination of LAN and TAM: • Holdco I owns 100% of the TAM common shares previously outstanding; • TAM Controlling Shareholders owns approximately 80.58% of the outstanding Holdco I voting shares through TEP Chile (a wholly owned Chilean entity) and LAN owns the remainder of the voting shares. 9 Table of Contents • LATAM owns 100% of the outstanding Holdco I non-voting shares, entitles it to substantially all of the economic rights in respect of the TAM common shares held by Holdco I; and • LATAM owns 100% of the TAM preferred shares previously outstanding. As a result of this ownership structure: • TAM and each airline subsidiary of TAM, retain voting and board control of TAM and each airline subsidiary of TAM; and • LATAM is entitled to all of the economic rights in TAM. LATAM and TEP Chile and other parties have entered into shareholders’ agreements that establish agreements and restrictions relating to corporate governance. Certain specified actions require supermajority approval, which in turn means they require the prior approval of both LATAM and TEP Chile. Examples of actions requiring supermajority approval by the board of directors of Holdco I or TAM include, among others, entering into acquisitions or business collaborations, amending or approving budgets, business plans, financial statements and accounting policies, incurring indebtedness, encumbering assets, entering into certain agreements, making certain investments, modifying rights or claims, entering into settlements, appointing executives, creating security interests, issuing, redeeming or repurchasing securities and voting on matters as a shareholder of subsidiaries of TAM. Actions requiring supermajority shareholder approval of Holdco I or TAM include, among others, certain changes to the by-laws of Holdco I, TAM or TAM’s subsidiaries or any dissolution/liquidation, corporate reorganization, payment of dividends, issuance of securities, disposal or encumbrance of certain assets, creation of security interests or entering into guarantees and agreements with related parties. For more information on the shareholders’ agreements, see “Item 7. Controlling Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreements.” LATAM assets include a significant amount of goodwill. The assets of the LATAM Airlines Group included US$3,313.4 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2014, US$3,168.7 million of which results from the combination with TAM. Under IFRS, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment test and may be required to be tested more frequently if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. Any impairment could result in the recognition of a significant charge to earnings in LATAM’s statement of income, which could materially and adversely impact our consolidated results for the period in which the impairment occurs. A failure to successfully implement LATAM’S strategy would harm its business and the market value of its ADSs and common shares. LATAM has developed a new strategic plan with the goal of becoming one of the best group of airlines in the world and renewing our commitment to sustained profitability and superior returns to shareholders. We based our strategic plan on five central factors: Customer Experience, Network, Efficiency and Cost Reduction, Organization Strength and Proactive Risk Management. Our new strategy requires us to identify value propositions that are attractive to our clients, to find efficiencies in our daily operations, and to transform ourselves into a stronger and more risk resilient company. Our strategic plan also anticipates strengthening our network and requires us to identify cities with adequate infrastructure and sufficient demand. There can be no assurances, however, that we will be able to correctly identify cities and regions in which to expand our operations, or that we will be able to attract sufficient passengers and cargo traffic to make our operations profitable. Difficulties in implementing our strategy and expanding our operations may adversely affect our business, results of operation and the market value of our ADSs and common shares. A failure to successfully implement the new single brand may adversely affect LATAM business and the market value of its ADSs and common shares. Since the combination, LAN and TAM have continued to operate with their original brands. LATAM Airlines Group has begun the transition of LAN and TAM into a single brand by gradually harmonizing the product and services offered by both airlines, although tge launch date for the new brand has not yet been determined. LAN and TAM currently have different value propositions, and there can be no assurances that we will be able to fully transfer the value of the original LAN and TAM brands to the new single brand. Difficulties in implementing our single brand may prevent us from consolidating as a customer preferred carrier and may adversely affect our business and results of operations and the market value of our ADSs and common shares. 10 Table of Contents It may take time to combine the frequent flyer programs of LAN and TAM LAN and TAM each previously ran their own frequent flyer programs. While LATAM has integrated these programs so that passengers can use frequent flyer miles earned with either LAN or TAM interchangeably, there is no guarantee that the full integration will be completed in the near term or at all. Even if the integration occurs, the successful integration of these programs will involve some time and expense. Until LATAM effectively combines these programs, passengers may prefer frequent flyer programs offered by other airlines, which may adversely affect our business. The financial results of LATAM are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. LATAM prepares and presents its consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars. Because of LATAM’s presence in several Latin American markets, a portion of its consolidated net assets, revenues and income is denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies, primarily Chilean pesos and Brazilian reais. In particular, the majority of TAM’s revenues are denominated in Brazilian reais, while a significant portion of its operating expenses are denominated in, or linked to, the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies. The consolidated financial condition and results of operations of LATAM is therefore sensitive to movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies. A depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could have an adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and prospects of LATAM. LATAM’S depend on strategic alliances or commercial relationships in many of the countries in which it operates and it business may suffer if any of its strategic alliances or commercial relationships terminates. In many of the jurisdictions in which we operate, we have found it in our interest to maintain a number of alliances and other commercial relationships. These alliances or commercial relationships allow us to enhance our network and, in some cases, to offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. If any of our strategic alliances or commercial relationships and, in particular, with American Airlines, Iberia, Qantas or oneworld®, Japan Airlines, Korean Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Alaska Airlines deteriorates, or any of these agreements are terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. LATAM’S business and results of operation may suffer if we fail to obtain and maintain routes, suitable airport access, slots and other operating permits. LATAM’S business depends upon our access to key routes and airports. Our operations could be constrained by any delay or inability to gain access to key routes or airports, including: • limitations on our ability to process more passengers; • the imposition of flight capacity restrictions; • the inability to secure or maintain route rights in local markets or under bilateral agreements; or • the inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain additional slots. LATAM operates numerous international routes, subject to bilateral agreements, and also internal flights within Chile, Peru, Brazil, Argentina, Ecuador, Colombia and other countries, subject to local route and airport access approvals. Bilateral aviation agreements as well as local aviation approvals frequently involve political and other considerations outside of our control. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation.” There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agreements between the countries in which our companies are based and permits from foreign governments will continue. A modification, suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The suspension of our permission to operate in certain airports, destinations or slots or the imposition of other sanctions could also have a material adverse effect. A change in the administration of current laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations in any of the countries in which we operate that restricts our route, airport or other access may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our cargo revenues come from relatively few product types and may be impacted by events affecting their production or trade. Our cargo demand, especially from Latin American exporters, is concentrated in a small number of product categories, such as exports of fish, sea products and fruits from Chile and asparagus from Peru, and exports of fresh flowers from Ecuador and Colombia. Events that negatively affect the production or trade of these goods may adversely affect the volume of goods that we transport and may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Some of our cargo products are sensitive to foreign exchange rates and, therefore, traffic volumes could be impacted by the appreciation or depreciation of local currencies. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to fluctuations in the supply and cost of jet fuel, which could negatively impact our business. Higher jet fuel prices or a shortage in the supply of fuel could cause a reduction in our scheduled service and could have a materially negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Jet fuel costs have historically accounted for a significant amount of our operating expenses, and accounted for approximately 35% of our operating expenses in 2014. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic and political factors and events that we can neither control nor predict. We have entered into fuel hedging arrangements, but there can be no assurance that such arrangements will be adequate to protect us from a significant increase in fuel prices in the near future or in the long term. Also, while these hedging arrangements are designed to limit the effect of an increase in fuel prices, some of our hedging methods may also limit our ability to take advantage of any decrease in fuel prices as was the case during the second half of 2014. Although we have implemented measures to pass a portion of incremental fuel costs to our customers, our ability to lessen the impact of any increase using these types of mechanisms may be limited. We rely on maintaining a high daily aircraft utilization rate to increase our revenues, which makes us especially vulnerable to delays. One of the key elements of our business strategy is to maintain a high daily aircraft utilization rate, which measures the number of flight hours we use our aircraft per day. High daily aircraft utilization allows us to maximize the amount of revenue we generate from our aircraft and is achieved, in part, by reducing turnaround times at airports and developing schedules that enable us to increase the average hours flown per day. Our rate of aircraft utilization could be adversely affected by a number of different factors that are beyond our control, including air traffic and airport congestion, adverse weather conditions and delays by third-party service providers relating to matters such as fueling and ground handling. If an aircraft falls behind schedule, the resulting delays could cause a disruption in our operating performance. We fly and depend upon Airbus and Boeing aircraft, and our business could suffer if we do not receive timely deliveries of aircraft, if aircraft from these companies becomes unavailable or if the public negatively perceives our aircraft. As our fleet has grown, our reliance on Airbus and Boeing has also grown. As of December 31, 2014, we operated a fleet of 247 Airbus, 73 Boeing and 7 Dash aircraft. Risks relating to Airbus and Boeing include: • our failure or inability to obtain Airbus or Boeing aircraft, parts or related support services on a timely basis because of high demand or other factors; • the interruption of fleet service as a result of unscheduled or unanticipated maintenance requirements for these aircraft; • the issuance by Chilean or other aviation authorities of other directives restricting or prohibiting the use of Airbus or Boeing aircraft, or requiring time-consuming inspections and maintenance; • the adverse public perception of a manufacturer as a result of an accident or other negative publicity; or • delays between the time we realize the need for new aircraft and the time it takes us to arrange for Airbus and Boeing or from a third-party provider to deliver this aircraft. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could restrict our ability to use aircraft to generate profits, respond to increased demands, or could otherwise limit our operations and adversely affect our business. Any delays Airbus A350 aircraft could disrupt our fleet plan. During 2015 LATAM Airlines expects to receive its first Airbus A350 aircraft out of an order of 27 aircraft of this model, becoming the first airline in Latin America to operate this modern new technology aircraft. Any delays in the reception of the aircraft or unanticipated operational issues with this new aircraft model could adversely affect our fleet plan. If we are unable to incorporate leased aircraft into our fleet at acceptable rates and terms in the future, our business could be adversely affected. A large portion of our aircraft is subject to long-term operating leases. Our operating leases typically run from three to twelve years from the date of delivery. We may face more competition for, or a limited supply of, leased aircraft, making it difficult for us to negotiate on competitive terms upon expiration of our current operating leases or to lease additional capacity required for our targeted level of operations. If we are forced to pay higher lease rates in the future to maintain our capacity and the number of aircraft in our fleet, our profitability could be adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to meet our significant future financing requirements. We require significant amounts of financing to meet our aircraft capital requirements and may require additional financing to fund our other business needs. We cannot guarantee that we will have access to or be able to arrange for financing in the future on favorable terms. Following the combination of LAN and TAM, Fitch Ratings Inc. and Standard and Poor’s downgraded LATAM Airline Group S.A.’s credit rating to levels that are below investment grade. These downgrades and any further securities rating 12 Table of Contents agencies downgrades could increase LATAM’s financing costs. If we are unable to obtain financing for a significant portion of our capital requirements, our ability to acquire new aircraft or to expand operations could be impaired and our business negatively affected. Our business may be adversely affected by our high degree of debt and aircraft lease obligations compared to our equity capital. We have a high degree of debt and payment obligations under our aircraft operating leases compared to equity capital. In order to finance our debt, we depend in part on our cash flow from operations. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to meet our payment obligations. In addition, the majority of our property and equipment is subject to liens securing our indebtedness. In the event that we fail to make payments on the secured indebtedness, creditors’ enforcement of liens could limit or end our ability to use the affected property and equipment to fulfill our operational needs and thus generate revenue. Variations in interest rates may have adverse effects on our interest payments business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the trading price of our ADRs and BDRs and preferred shares. We are exposed to the risk of interest rate variations, principally in relation to the U.S. dollar London Interbank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”). Many of our operating and financial leases are denominated in U.S. dollars and bear interest at a floating rate. Approximately 38% of LATAM’s outstanding consolidated debt as of December 31, 2014 bears interest at a floating rate. After giving effect to interest rate hedging agreements, approximately 32% of LATAM’s outstanding consolidated debt is exposed to floating rates. Volatility in LIBOR or the TJLP could increase our periodic interest and lease payments and have an adverse effect on our total financing costs. We may be unable to adequately adjust our prices to offset any increased financing costs, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and our results of operations. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Major events affecting the aviation insurance industry (such as terrorist attacks, hijackings or airline crashes) may result in significant increases of the airlines’ insurance premium or in significant decreases of insurance coverage, as occurred after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage could harm our financial condition and results of operations and increases the risk that we experience uncovered losses. Problems with air traffic control systems or other technical failures could interrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations, including our ability to deliver customer service, are dependent on the effective operation of our equipment, including our aircraft, maintenance systems and reservation systems. Our operations are also dependent on the effective operation of domestic and international air traffic control systems and the air traffic control infrastructure in the markets in which we operate. Equipment failures, personnel shortages, air traffic control problems and other factors that could interrupt operations could adversely affect our operations and financial results as well as our reputation. Our business relies extensively on third-party service providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in our relationships with these providers or their provision of services to us, could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to our business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. We do not directly control these third-party service providers, although we do enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments, may suffer disruptions to their systems that could impact their services, or the agreements with such providers may be terminated. For example, flight reservations booked by customers and/or travel agencies via third-party GDSs may be adversely affected by disruptions in our business relationships with GDS operators. Such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the carriers’ flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both us and GDS users, and impair our relationships with customers and travel agencies. The failure of any of our third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues and increase our expenses or prevent us from operating our flights and providing other services to our customers. In addition, our business, financial performance and reputation could be materially harmed if our customers believe that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory. 13 Table of Contents Disruptions or security breaches of our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise passenger or employee information and expose us to liability, possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer. A serious internal technology error or failure impacting systems hosted internally at our data centers or externally at third-party locations, or large scale external interruption in technology infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our technology network. Our technology systems and related data may also be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption, including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. While we have in place, and continue to invest in, technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent a business disruption and its adverse financial and reputational consequences to our business. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our passengers and employees and information of our business partners. The secure operation of the networks and systems on which this type of information is stored, processed and maintained is critical to our business operations and strategy. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deception. Hardware or software we develop or acquire may contain defects that could unexpectedly compromise information security. The compromise of our technology systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of, or access to, customers’, employees’ or business partners’ information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any or all of which could adversely affect our business. Our financial success depends on the availability and performance of key personnel, who are not subject to non-competition restrictions. Our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our senior management team and key personnel to operate and manage our business effectively. Our employment agreements with key personnel do not contain any non-competition provisions applicable upon termination. If we lose any executive officer, senior manager or other key employee and are not able to obtain an adequate replacement, or if we are unable to attract and retain new qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business may experience adverse consequences if we are unable to reach satisfactory collective bargaining agreements with our unionized employees. As of December 31, 2014 approximately 67% of LATAM’s employees, including administrative personnel, cabin crews, flight attendants, pilots and maintenance technicians are members of unions and have contracts and collective bargaining agreements which expire on a regular basis. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by a failure to reach agreement with any labor union representing such employees or by an agreement with a labor union that contains terms that are not in line with our expectations or that prevent us from competing effectively with other airlines. Collective action by employees could cause operating disruptions and negatively impact our business. Certain employee groups such as pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and our airport personnel have highly specialized skills. As a consequence, actions by these groups, such as strikes, walk-outs or stoppages, could severely disrupt our operations and negatively impact our operating and financial performance, as well as our image. Increases in our labor costs, which constitute a substantial portion of our total operating expenses, could directly impact our earnings. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating expenses (20% in 2014) and at times in our operating history we have experienced pressure to increase wages and benefits for our employees. A significant increase in our labor costs above the assumed costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining employees. Our business is labor intensive. We employ a large number of pilots, flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. The airline industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel, specifically pilots and maintenance technicians. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we may, from time to time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should the turnover of employees, particularly pilots and maintenance technicians, sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. A failure to recruit, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related the Airline Industry Our performance is heavily dependent on economic conditions in the countries in which we do business and negative economic conditions in those countries could have an adverse impact on our business. Passenger and cargo demand is heavily cyclical and highly dependent on global and local economic growth, economic expectations and foreign exchange rate variations, among other things. Our business has been negatively affected by global economic recessionary conditions, weak economic growth in Chile, in Brazil, recession in Argentina and poor economic performance in certain emerging market countries in which we operate. The occurrence of similar events in the future could adversely affect our business. We will continue to work on operations based in Latin America and our performance will, therefore, continue to depend heavily on economic conditions in the region. Any of the following factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the countries in which we operate: • changes in economic or other governmental policies; • weak economic performance, including, but not limited to, low economic growth, low consumption and/or investment rates, and increased inflation rates; or • other political or economic developments over which we have no control. No assurance can be given that capacity reductions or other steps we may take in response to weakened demand will be adequate to offset any future reduction in our cargo and/or air travel demand. Sustained weakened demand may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is highly regulated and changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is highly regulated and depends substantially upon the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate or intend to operate. For example, price controls on fares may limit our ability to effectively apply customer segmentation profit maximization techniques (“passenger revenue management”) and adjust prices to reflect cost pressures. High levels of government regulation may limit the scope of our operations and our growth plans, and the possible failure of aviation authorities to maintain the required governmental authorizations or our failure to comply with applicable regulations, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Losses and liabilities in the event of an accident involving one or more of our aircraft could materially affect our business. We are exposed to potential catastrophic losses in the event of an aircraft accident, terrorist incident or any other similar event. There can be no assurance that, as a result of an aircraft accident or significant incident: • we will not need to increase our insurance coverage; • our insurance premiums will not increase significantly; • our insurance coverage will fully cover all of our liability; or • we will not be forced to bear substantial losses. Substantial claims resulting from an accident or significant incident in excess of our related insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any aircraft accident, even if fully insured, could cause the negative public perception that our aircraft are less safe or reliable than those operated by other airlines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or incident affecting one of our alliance partners or other airlines. High levels of competition in the airline industry may adversely affect our level of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by high levels of competition within the industry, particularly the entrance of new competitors into the markets in which we operate. Airlines compete primarily over fare levels, frequency and dependability of service, brand recognition, passenger amenities (such as frequent flyer programs) and the availability and convenience of other passenger or cargo services. New and existing airlines (and companies providing ground cargo transportation) could enter our markets and compete with us on any of these bases, including by offering lower prices, more attractive services or increasing their route capacities in an effort to gain greater market share. Chile has opened its domestic aviation industry to foreign airlines without restrictions, which may change the competitive landscape of the domestic Chilean aviation sector and affect our business and results of operations. Since November 2013, Chilean laws and regulations have permitted foreign airlines to operate domestic flights in Chile without necessarily setting up a Chilean subsidiary first. The Chilean Domestic Unilateral Open Skies Rule may change the competitive landscape of the Domestic Chilean Aviation Sector, as it will be easier for foreign companies in the future to freely operate in the Chilean territory, which may subject us to further competition. Competition from international carriers in the Chilean market may affect the competitive dynamics of our industry by reducing our passenger traffic and cargo demands, forcing us to reduce our fare levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and level of operations. 15 Table of Contents The reallocation of any of our slots to other market participants could adversely affect our operations. The Brazilian government has proposed and in some cases already implemented, regulations to reallocate existing takeoff and landing slots at major airports in Brazil from TAM and our competitor, GOL, to smaller airlines and new market entrants, in order to stimulate small airline access to airport infrastructure. In the case of the Congonhas airport in Sao Paulo, slots were increased in October 2014 and given to new entrants (Azul and Avianca Brazil); and in a second stage slots could be reallocated, if current operators don’t comply with measures regarding on-time performance and regularity of service. We rely on access to takeoff and landing slots at Congonhas airport and other airports throughout Brazil, to conduct our Brazilian passenger operations. The reallocation of any of our slots to other market participants could adversely affect our operations. Some of our competitors may receive external support which could negatively impact our competitive position. Some of our competitors may receive support from external sources, such as their national governments, which may be unavailable to us. Support may include, among others, subsidies, financial aid or tax waivers. This support could place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The regulatory structure of Brazilian civil aviation is undergoing change and we have not yet been able to evaluate the results of this change on our business and results of operations. Scheduled air transportation services are considered public utilities in Brazil and are subject to extensive regulation by the Brazilian government. Over recent years, the Brazilian regulatory authorities have taken a more proactive role in monitoring the development of the Brazilian civil aviation market. For example, in an effort to prevent excess supply, the authorities have established rigorous criteria for air transport companies to follow when creating new routes or increasing flight frequencies. Operation of air transportation services, as well as airport infrastructure, is an exclusive right of the Brazilian government, which may choose to provide these services directly or through third parties by means of concessions or permits. TAM’s concession to operate public air transportation was first obtained on December 9, 1996, and is valid until December 9, 2021. We cannot assure you that we will be able to automatically renew TAM’s concession when it expires. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Brazil—Aeronautical Regulation.” Additionally, our capacity to grow our Brazilian operations is dependent on receiving the necessary authorizations from ANAC and the Bureau of International Relations (Superintendência de Relações Internacionais, or “SRI”). We cannot assure you that we will obtain all necessary authorizations in the future and any failure to do so would require us to re-evaluate our strategies. Our operations are subject to local, national and international environmental regulations; costs of compliance with applicable regulations, or the consequences of noncompliance, could adversely affect our results, our business or our reputation. Our operations are covered by environmental regulations at local, national and international levels. These regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the atmosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, aircraft noise and other activities incident to our business. Future operations and financial results may vary as a result of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including adverse effects on our reputation. The European Union (“EU”) had proposed a directive under which the existing emissions trading scheme (the “ETS”) in each EU member state was to be extended to all airlines. This directive would require us to submit annual emission allowances in order to operate routes to and from EU member states. As of the date of this Annual Report, this proposal has been postponed for evaluation in 2016 and the directive affects only intra-European flights (which are not material to LATAM’s operation but there is a possibility that the directive could be extended to all flights in the future. Currently, we operate 6 routes to and from Europe, and service additional destinations through our code-share agreements. Although it is uncertain if this directive will be approved in 2016, it is increasingly likely that we will be required to participate in some form of an international aircraft emissions program in the future, which may involve significant costs. Our business may be adversely affected by a downturn in the airline industry caused by exogenous events that affect travel behavior or increase costs, such as outbreak of disease, weather conditions and natural disasters, war or terrorist attacks. Demand for air transportation may be adversely impacted by exogenous events, such as adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, epidemics (such as Ebola), terrorist attacks, war or political and social instability. Situations such as these in one or more of the markets in which we operate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of situations could have a prolonged effect on air transportation demand and on certain cost items. 16 Table of Contents Revenues for airlines depend on the number of passengers carried, the fare paid by each passenger and service factors, such as the timeliness of flight departures and arrivals. During periods of fog, ice, low temperatures, storms or other adverse weather conditions, some or all of our flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed, reducing our revenues. In addition, fuel prices and supplies, which constitute a significant cost for us, may increase as a result of any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in hostilities or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries. Such increases may result in both higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for air travel generally, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Developments in Latin American countries and other emerging market countries may adversely affect the Chilean and Brazilian economies, negatively impact our business and results of operations and cause the market price of our common shares and ADSs to decrease. We conduct a significant portion of our operations in emerging market countries, particularly in Latin America. As a result, economic and political developments in these countries, including future economic crises and political instability, could impact the Chilean or Brazilian economies and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our securities. Although economic conditions in other emerging market countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Chile and Brazil, we cannot assure that events in other countries, particularly other emerging market countries, will not adversely affect the market value of, or market for, our common shares or ADSs. Changes in the Chilean corporate tax rate or tax regime could adversely affect our financial results. On October 2014, President Bachelet’s government approved a gradual increase in the Chilean corporate tax, from 20% to 25% or 27% (depending on the tax system chosen by the Chilean corporate tax payer) from 2014 to 2018. This increase, affected the tax provision for Chilean companies, including LATAM whose corporate tax rate will increase to 27%, and has required adjustments in deferred taxes to reflect the higher tax rate. Currently LATAM has losses resulting from its investment plan, but if LATAM records net income and no longer has tax losses available, our effective tax rate could increase and our net income could decrease. For more information on taxation see Note 17 in our audited consolidated financial statements Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real, Chilean peso and other currencies in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We operate in numerous countries and face the risk of variation in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar or between the currencies of these various countries. Changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 97% of our indebtedness at December 31, 2014 was denominated in U.S. dollars, and we are expecting than 42% of our revenues and 35% of our operating expenses in 2015 are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, mainly the Brazilian real and the Chilean peso. If the value of the Brazilian real, Chilean peso or other currencies, in which revenues are denominated, declines against the U.S. dollar, we will need a greater amount of these currencies to repay the same amount of U.S. dollars. The Brazilian Real and the Chilean peso, respectively, experienced average nominal depreciations against the U.S. dollar of 16.7% and 0.7% in 2012, 10.5% and 1.8% in 2013 and 9.1% and 15.2% in 2014. The exchange rate of the Chilean peso, Brazilian real and other currencies against the U.S. dollar may fluctuate significantly in the future. Changes in Chilean, Brazilian and other governmental economic policies affecting foreign exchange rates could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the return to our shareholders on their common shares or ADSs. Exchange controls in Venezuela delay our ability to repatriate cash generated from operations in Venezuela. They also increase our exposure to exchange rate losses due to potential devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar vis à vis the U.S. dollar during the period of time between the time we are paid in Venezuelan bolivares and the time we are able to repatriate such revenues in U.S. dollars. During 2014, the company modified the exchange rate used in determining equivalence of United States Dollar in cash and cash equivalents held in strong Bolivar, from 6.3 VEF/US$ to 12.0 VEF/US$, which represented a loss by foreign exchange of US$61 million on our results. The Brazilian government has exercised, and may continue to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has been characterized by the significant involvement of the Brazilian government, which often changes monetary, credit, fiscal and other policies to influence Brazil’s economy. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and implement other policies have involved wage and price controls, depreciation of the real, controls over remittance of funds abroad, intervention by the Central Bank to affect base interest rates and other measures. We have no control over, and cannot predict what measures or policies the Brazilian government may take in the future. 17 Table of Contents We are not required to disclose as much information to investors as a U.S. issuer is required to disclose and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you would receive from a comparable U.S. company. The corporate disclosure requirements that apply to us may not be equivalent to the disclosure requirements that apply to a U.S. company and, as a result, you may receive less information about us than you would receive from a comparable U.S. company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. The disclosure requirements applicable to foreign issuers under the Exchange Act are more limited than the disclosure requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. Publicly available information about issuers of securities listed on Chilean or Brazilian stock exchanges also provides less detail in certain respects than the information regularly published by listed companies in the United States or in certain other countries. Furthermore, there is a lower level of regulation of the Chilean and Brazilian securities markets and of the activities of investors in such markets as compared with the level of regulation of the securities markets in the United States and in certain other developed countries. Risks Related to our Common Shares and ADSs Our controlling shareholders may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders. We have two groups of major shareholders—the Cueto Group (the “LATAM Controlling Shareholders”) and the Amaro Group (the “TAM Controlling Shareholders”). As of January 31, 2015, the LATAM Controlling Shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 25.5% of our voting common shares, and the TAM Controlling Shareholders, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 12.0% of our voting common shares. The LATAM Controlling Shareholders are in a position to elect three of the nine members of our board of directors and are in a position to direct our management. In addition, the LATAM Controlling Shareholders have entered into a shareholders agreement with the TAM Controlling Shareholders, pursuant to which these controlling shareholders have agreed to vote together to elect individuals that the TAM Controlling Shareholders nominate to our board of directors. See “Item 7. Controlling Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders.” Under the terms of the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if holders of ADSs do not provide JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as depositary for the ADSs, with timely instructions on the voting of the common shares underlying their ADRs, the depositary will be deemed to have been instructed to give a person designated by the board of directors the discretionary right to vote those common shares. The person designated by the board of directors to exercise this discretionary voting right may have interests that are aligned with our controlling shareholders, which may differ from those of our other shareholders. Historically, our board of directors has designated its chairman, who currently is Mauricio Amaro, to serve in this role. Trading of our ADSs and common shares in the securities markets is limited and could experience further illiquidity and price volatility. Chilean securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. In addition, Chilean securities markets may be materially affected by developments in other emerging markets, particularly other countries in Latin America. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying ADSs in the amount and at the price and time of your choice may be substantially limited. This limited trading market may also increase the price volatility of the ADSs or the common shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may be adversely affected by currency devaluations and foreign exchange fluctuations. If the Chilean peso exchange rate falls relative to the U.S. dollar, the value of the ADSs and any distributions made thereon from the depositary could be adversely affected. Cash distributions made in respect of the ADSs are received by the depositary (represented by the custodian bank in Chile) in pesos, converted by the custodian bank into U.S. dollars at the then prevailing exchange rate and distributed by the depositary to the holders of the ADRs evidencing those ADSs. In addition, the depositary will incur foreign currency conversion costs (to be borne by the holders of the ADRs) in connection with the foreign currency conversion and subsequent distribution of dividends or other payments with respect to the ADSs. Future changes in Chilean foreign investment controls and withholding taxes could negatively affect non-Chilean residents that invest in our shares. Equity investments in Chile by non-Chilean residents have been subject in the past to various exchange control regulations that govern investment repatriation and earnings thereon. Although not currently in effect, regulations of the Central Bank of Chile have in the past required, and could again require, foreign investors acquiring securities in the secondary market in Chile to maintain a cash reserve or to pay a fee upon conversion of foreign currency to purchase such securities. Furthermore, future changes in withholding taxes could negatively affect non-Chilean residents that invest in our shares. We cannot assure you that additional Chilean restrictions applicable to the holders of ADRs, the disposition of the common shares underlying ADSs or the repatriation of the proceeds from an acquisition, a disposition or a dividend payment, will not be 18 Table of Contents imposed or required in the future, nor could we make an assessment as to the duration or impact, were any such restrictions to be imposed or required. For further information, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls—Foreign Investment and Exchange Controls in Chile.” Our ADS holders may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain circumstances. The Chilean Corporation Law provides that preemptive rights shall be granted to all shareholders whenever a company issues new shares for cash, giving such holders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. We will not be able to offer shares to holders of ADSs and shareholders located in the United States pursuant to the preemptive rights granted to shareholders in connection with any future issuance of shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the “Securities Act”), is effective with respect to such rights and shares, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. At the time of any rights offering, we will evaluate the potential costs and liabilities associated with any such registration statement in light of any indirect benefit to us of enabling U.S. holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs and shareholders located in the United States to exercise preemptive rights, as well as any other factors that may be considered appropriate at that time, and we will then make a decision as to whether we will file a registration statement. We cannot assure you that we will decide to file a registration statement or that such rights will be available to ADS holders and shareholders located in the United States. 