Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS We have a history of operating losses and there is no assurance that we will maintain profitability in the future. We have a history of operating losses. We have sustained operating losses of $4,329, $1,236 and $1,098 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We cannot predict if we will generate profitable operations in the future. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. We provide services to customers over access lines. If access lines decline, operating results may be adversely affected. Our business generates revenues by delivering voice, video and data services over access lines. We continue to experience access line losses due to competition from wireless and broadband service providers. We may continue to experience access line losses in our primary markets. Our inability to retain access lines could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to competition that may adversely impact us. As an ILEC, we historically faced little competition in our markets. As a direct result of deregulation, we now face direct competition in our traditional ILEC territories by CLEC operations and other providers of telecommunications services that offer comparable voice, video and data products. The primary competitor in our market has brand recognition and financial, personnel, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. In addition, consolidations and strategic alliances within the telecommunications industry, as well as ongoing technological innovation, are likely to affect our competitive position. We cannot predict the number of competitors that will ultimately emerge, but increased competition from existing and new entities could have an adverse effect on our business. With increased substitution of wireless for landline services, wireless carriers are now competing aggressively for our voice customers. We may not be able to successfully integrate new technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, the development of new types of content, frequent new service offerings and a changing regulatory and economic environment. We cannot predict the changes in our competitive position or profitability. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require significant expenditures of capital to upgrade and/or replace outdated technologies. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments in the industry may reduce the attractiveness of our products and services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or obsolescence, or fail to obtain access to important new technologies or content, we could lose existing customers and fail to attract new customers. For this reason, we have developed video offerings and a VoIP product. A key element of our long-term growth strategy is our ability to deliver new and enhanced products and services to our customers. The successful delivery of new products and services is uncertain and dependent on many factors. There is no guarantee that delivery of these services will generate the anticipated increase in customers and revenues. Our relationships with other communications companies are material to our operations. We originate and terminate calls for long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network and for that service we receive payments for access charges. These payments represent a significant portion of our revenues. Should these carriers go bankrupt or experience substantial financial difficulties, our inability to collect access charges from them could have a significant negative impact on our business and results of operations. The need for increased capital improvements to upgrade or expand the O-P facilities or a decrease in demand for services or continued competitive pressure on rates could cause the O-P’s profitability to decline 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS and could thereby reduce the income that we derive from those profits. We receive quarterly cash distributions from O-P, which comprises a substantial percentage of our cash flow. O-P distributions are made at the discretion of the O-P general partner. The failure of the general partner to make a cash distribution to the limited partners or decreases in distributions in any quarter would have a significant negative impact on our business. We are subject to significant regulations that could change in a manner that is adverse to our interests, or could remain in effect in such a way that impedes our ability to compete. We operate in a heavily-regulated industry. A significant portion of our revenues generally have been supported by regulations that provide for local and network access revenues and USF funds. Potential changes in the funding and/or payout rules for the USF might further reduce our revenues obtained from the USF. Reforms of the USF are the subject of pending legislation in Congress. We cannot predict the level of USF funding we will receive in the future as a result of USF reforms. Proposed USF reforms may have a significant negative impact on our business. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors have, from time to time, been challenged in the courts, and could be changed by the FCC or state regulators. On February 10, 2005, the FCC adopted a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing inter-carrier compensation. Proposed inter-carrier compensation changes, such as “bill and keep” (under which switched access charges and reciprocal compensation would be reduced or eliminated), could reduce our access revenues. No decision or resolution of inter-carrier compensation has yet been forthcoming, and we cannot predict the impact of such decision or resolution. Regulatory changes could adversely impact the rates we are permitted to charge our customers, reduce payments to us from the USF or restrict our ability to effectively compete in the market place. Regulatory changes could also restrict our ability to secure new sources of capital and/or grow through strategic acquisitions or alliances. In addition, the failure of regulations to change in a manner that would establish an environment in which we may compete on more even terms with our actual economic competitors could also adversely affect our profitability. Weak economic conditions may impact demand for our services. We could realize a change in demand for services due to the ongoing recession. Downturns in the economy and continued competition in our markets may cause some of our existing customers to disconnect or scale back basic and enhanced services, broadband Internet or video service, and it may become more difficult for us to acquire new customers. Furthermore, the current economic condition may prolong our payment collections interval and in some cases increase our need to discontinue service for nonpayment. The decline in pension plan assets during 2008 significantly increased pension plan expense and required contributions during 2009. With the subsequent increase in pension plan assets during 2009, our anticipated contribution to the pension plan is expected to decline during 2010. If market conditions result in a decrease in pension plan assets during 2010, required pension plan contributions may increase in 2011. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. This item is not applicable. 