Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a number of risks. Before making a decision to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this annual report. If any of the risks discussed in this annual report actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline significantly and you may lose all or part of your investment. General Risks Related to Our Business Our leveraging strategy increases the risks of our operations. Relative to our investment grade Agency and Non-Agency MBS, we generally borrow, on a short-term basis, between eight to twelve times the amount of our equity, although our borrowings may at times be above or below this amount. We incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Use of leverage can enhance our investment returns. Leverage, however, also increases risks. In the following ways, the use of leverage increases our risk of loss and may reduce our net income by increasing the risks associated with other risk factors including a decline in the market value of our MBS or a default of a mortgage-related asset: • The use of leverage increases our risk of loss resulting from various factors including rising interest rates, increased interest rate volatility, downturns in the economy and reductions in the availability of financing or deterioration in the conditions of any of our mortgage-related assets. • A majority of our borrowings are secured by our mortgage-related assets, generally under repurchase agreements. A decline in the market value of the mortgage-related assets used to secure these debt obligations could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings. In that situation, we could be required to sell mortgage-related assets under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the MBS, we would experience losses. • A default of a mortgage-related asset that constitutes collateral for a repurchase agreement or whole loan financing facility could also result in an involuntary liquidation of the mortgage-related asset. This would result in a loss to us of the difference between the value of the mortgage-related asset upon liquidation and the amount borrowed against the mortgage-related asset. • To the extent we are compelled to liquidate qualified REIT assets to repay debts, our compliance with the REIT rules regarding our assets and our sources of income could be affected, which could jeopardize our status as a REIT. Losing our REIT status would cause us to lose tax advantages applicable to REITs and may decrease our overall profitability and distributions to our stockholders. 29 Table of Contents Our officers devote a portion of their time to other companies in capacities that could create conflicts of interest that may harm our investment opportunities; this lack of a full-time commitment could also harm our operating results. Lloyd McAdams, Joseph E. McAdams, Thad M. Brown, Bistra Pashamova and other of our officers and employees are officers and employees of Pacific Income Advisers, or PIA, where they devote a portion of their time. These officers and employees are under no contractual obligations mandating minimum amounts of time to be devoted to our company. In addition, a trust controlled by Lloyd McAdams is the principal stockholder of PIA. These officers and employees are involved in investing both our assets and approximately $4.1 billion in MBS and other fixed income assets for institutional clients and individual investors through PIA. These multiple responsibilities and ownerships may create conflicts of interest if these officers and employees of our company are presented with opportunities that may benefit both us and the clients of PIA. These officers allocate investments among our portfolio and the clients of PIA by determining the entity or account for which the investment is most suitable. In making this determination, these officers consider the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity or account with respect to acquisition of assets, leverage, liquidity and other factors that our officers determine appropriate. These officers, however, have no obligation to make any specific investment opportunities available to us and the above-mentioned conflicts of interest may result in decisions or allocations of securities that are not in our best interests. Several of our officers and employees are also directors, officers and managers of BT Management, the company that manages the day-to-day operations of Belvedere Trust, and Lloyd McAdams is also an owner and Chairman of Syndicated Capital, Inc., a registered broker-dealer. Our officers’ service to PIA, BT Management and Syndicated Capital, Inc. allow them to spend only part of their time and effort managing our company, as they are required to devote a portion of their time and effort to the management of other companies, and this may harm our overall management and operating results. We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would harm our profitability. Currently, all of our borrowings are collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase and whole loan financing agreements. If the interest rates on these agreements increase, that would harm our profitability. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon: • the movement of interest rates; • the availability of financing in the market; and • the value and liquidity of our mortgage-related assets. An increase in interest rates may harm our book value and cause a decrease in the demand for mortgage loans, which could harm the cash available for distribution to you. Increases in interest rates may harm the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Our hybrid adjustable-rate mortgage-related assets (during the fixed-rate component of the mortgages underlying such assets) and our fixed-rate securities are generally more harmed by these increases. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (or GAAP), we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage-related assets. Losses on securities classified as available-for-sale, which are determined by management to be other-than-temporary in nature, are reclassified from “Accumulated other comprehensive income” to current operations. 30 Table of Contents Furthermore, rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans. Interest rates had been at record low levels in recent years. The Mortgage Bankers Association of America has projected that residential mortgage loan originations will decrease for a period after 2006, primarily due to an anticipated decrease in refinancings caused by rising interest rates. In a period of rising interest rates, we expect to acquire and securitize fewer loans, which would harm parts of our business, revenues and results of operations, which could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to you. A flat or inverted yield curve may negatively affect our operations, book value and profitability due to its potential impact on investment yields and the supply of adjustable-rate mortgage, or ARM, products. A flat yield curve occurs when there is little difference between short-term and long-term interest rates. An inverted yield curve occurs when short-term interest rates are higher than long-term interest rates. A flat or inverted yield curve may be an adverse environment for ARM product volume, as there may be little incentive for borrowers to choose an ARM product over a longer-term fixed-rate loan. If the supply of ARM product decreases, yields may decline due to market forces. Our borrowing costs under repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR. A flat or inverted yield curve will likely result in lower profits. Additionally, a flat or inverted yield curve may negatively impact the pricing of our securities. According to GAAP, if the values of our securities decrease, we reduce our book value by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage-related assets. We depend on borrowings to purchase mortgage-related assets and reach our desired amount of leverage. If we fail to obtain or renew sufficient funding on favorable terms, we will be limited in our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets and our earnings and profitability would decline. We depend on short-term borrowings to fund acquisitions of mortgage-related assets and reach our desired amount of leverage. Accordingly, our ability to achieve our investment and leverage objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. In addition, we must be able to renew or replace our maturing short-term borrowings on a continuous basis. Moreover, we depend on a limited number of lenders to provide the primary credit facilities for our purchases of mortgage-related assets. If we cannot renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell our mortgage-related assets under adverse market conditions and may incur permanent capital losses as a result. Any number of these factors in combination may cause difficulties for us, including a possible liquidation of a major portion of our portfolio at disadvantageous prices with consequent losses, which may render us insolvent. Possible market developments could cause our lenders to require us to pledge additional assets as collateral. If our assets are insufficient to meet the collateral requirements, then we may be compelled to liquidate particular assets at an inopportune time. Possible market developments, including a sharp rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of mortgage-related assets in which our portfolio is concentrated may reduce the market value of our portfolio, which may cause our lenders to require additional collateral. This requirement for additional collateral may compel us to liquidate our assets at a disadvantageous time, thus harming our operating results and net profitability. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender files for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take 31 Table of Contents possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, the use of repurchase agreements exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. Because assets we acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may lose profits or be prevented from earning capital gains if we cannot sell mortgage-related assets at an opportune time. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our mortgage-related assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. As a result, the illiquidity of mortgage-related assets may cause us to lose profits and the ability to earn capital gains. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We engage in hedging activity. As such, we use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When interest rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives, which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans or residual interests. Additionally, from time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions in connection with our holdings of MBS and government securities with respect to one or more of our assets or liabilities. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items and futures and forward contracts. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. We cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. It is likely that there will be periods in the future during which we will incur losses after accounting for our derivative financial instruments. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. Competition may prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related assets at favorable yields and that would negatively impact our profitability. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. If that occurs, our profitability will be harmed. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval and such changes could harm our business, results of operation and stock price. Our board of directors can modify or waive our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies may have on our business, operating results and stock price, however, the effects may be adverse. 32 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel and the loss of any of our key personnel could harm our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience and skill of our officers and other employees for the selection, structuring and monitoring of our mortgage-related assets and associated borrowings. Our key officers include Lloyd McAdams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer); Joseph E. McAdams, Chief Investment Officer, Executive Vice President and Director; Thad M. Brown, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer), Treasurer and Secretary; Charles J. Siegel, Senior Vice President-Finance and Assistant Secretary; Evangelos Karagiannis, Vice President; and Bistra Pashamova, Vice President. Belvedere Trust’s key officers are Claus Lund, Belvedere Trust’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and Russell Thompson, Belvedere Trust’s Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Our dependence on our key personnel is heightened by the fact that we have a relatively small number of employees and the loss of any key person could harm our entire business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. In particular, the loss of the services of Lloyd McAdams or Joseph E. McAdams could seriously harm our business. Our incentive compensation plan may create an incentive to increase the risk of our mortgage portfolio in an attempt to increase compensation. In addition to their base salaries, some management and key employees are eligible to earn incentive compensation for each fiscal year pursuant to our 2002 Incentive Plan. Under the 2002 Incentive Plan, the aggregate amount of compensation that may be earned by these employees equals a percentage of taxable net income, before incentive compensation, in excess of the amount that would produce an annualized return on average net worth equal to the ten-year U.S. Treasury Rate plus 1%. In any fiscal quarter in which our taxable net income is an amount less than the amount necessary to earn this threshold return, we calculate negative incentive compensation for that fiscal quarter which will be carried forward and will offset future incentive compensation earned under the 2002 Incentive Plan, but only with respect to those participants who were participants during the fiscal quarter(s) in which negative incentive compensation was generated. Although negative incentive compensation is used to offset future incentive compensation, as our management evaluates different mortgage-related assets for our investment, there is a risk that management will cause us to assume more risk than is prudent. Risk Related Primarily to Anworth’s Business Interest rate mismatches between our adjustable-rate MBS and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of these assets may reduce our income during periods of changing interest rates. We fund most of our acquisitions of adjustable-rate MBS with borrowings that have interest rates based on indices and repricing terms similar to, but of shorter maturities than, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of our MBS. Accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, this may harm our profitability. Most of the MBS we acquire are adjustable-rate securities. This means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in a short-term interest rate index. Therefore, in most cases, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the MBS that we acquire and their funding sources will not be identical, thereby creating an interest rate mismatch between our assets and liabilities. While the historical spread between relevant short-term interest rate indices has been relatively stable, there have been periods when the spread between these indices was volatile. During periods of changing interest rates, these mismatches could reduce our net income, dividend yield and the market price of our stock. The interest rates on our borrowings generally adjust more frequently than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS. For example, at December 31, 2006, our agency and Non-Agency adjustable-rate MBS had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of approximately 28 months, while our borrowings had a weighted average term to next rate adjustment of 90 days. After adjusting for interest rate swap transactions, the weighted average term to next rate adjustment was 301 days. Accordingly, in a period of rising interest rates, we 33 Table of Contents could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings adjust faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate MBS. Increased levels of prepayments from MBS may decrease our net interest income. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the MBS that we acquire. We generally receive payments from principal payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this results in prepayments that are faster than expected on the MBS. Faster than expected prepayments could harm our profitability as follows: • We usually purchase MBS that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we pay a premium over the par value to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we amortize this premium over the term of the mortgage-backed security. If the mortgage-backed security is prepaid in whole or in part prior to its maturity date, however, we expense the premium that was prepaid at the time of the prepayment. At December 31, 2006, substantially all of our MBS had been acquired at a premium. • We anticipate that a substantial portion of our adjustable-rate MBS may bear interest rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an adjustable-rate mortgage-backed security is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully indexed rate, we will have held that mortgage-backed security while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. • If we are unable to acquire new MBS similar to the prepaid MBS, our financial condition, results of operation and cash flow would suffer. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. While we seek to minimize prepayment risk to the extent practical, in selecting investments, we must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment risk. We may experience reduced net interest income from holding fixed-rate investments during periods of rising interest rates. We generally fund our acquisition of fixed-rate MBS with short-term borrowings. During periods of rising interest rates, our costs associated with borrowings used to fund acquisition of fixed-rate assets are subject to increases while the income we earn from these assets remains substantially fixed. This reduces or could eliminate the net interest spread between the fixed-rate MBS that we purchase and our borrowings used to purchase them, which could lower our net interest income or cause us to suffer a loss. At December 31, 2006, 16% of our Agency MBS were fixed-rate securities. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate MBS may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. Our adjustable-rate MBS are subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage-backed security. Our borrowings are not subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while interest rate caps would limit the interest rates on our 34 Table of Contents adjustable-rate MBS. This problem is magnified for our adjustable-rate MBS that are not fully indexed. Further, some adjustable-rate MBS may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we could receive less cash income on adjustable-rate MBS than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could lower our net interest income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. At December 31, 2006, approximately 84% of our Agency MBS were adjustable-rate securities. We may invest in leveraged mortgage derivative securities that generally experience greater volatility in market prices, thus exposing us to greater risk with respect to their rate of return. We may acquire leveraged mortgage derivative securities that may expose us to a high level of interest rate risk. The characteristics of leveraged mortgage derivative securities result in greater volatility in their market prices. Thus, acquisition of leveraged mortgage derivative securities would expose us to the risk of greater price volatility in our portfolio and that could harm our net income and overall profitability. New assets we acquire may not generate yields as attractive or be as accretive to book value as have been experienced historically. We may acquire new assets as we receive principal and interest payments and prepayments from our existing assets. We also sell assets from time to time as part of our portfolio and asset/liability management programs. We may invest these proceeds into new earning assets. New assets may not generate yields as attractive as we have experienced historically. Business conditions, including credit results, prepayment patterns and interest rate trends in the future, are unlikely to be as favorable as they have been for the last few years. New assets may not be as accretive to book value as existing assets. The market value of our assets is sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. In the past few years as short-term interest rates have increased, the market value of our existing assets has declined. As we classify our Agency MBS, Non-Agency MBS and BT Other MBS as available-for-sale, accounting regulations require that any unrealized losses from the decline in market value be carried as “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” in the “Stockholders’ equity” section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. When short-term interest rates stop increasing, or start declining, or when the interest rates on these securities reset, the market value of these assets will increase. This may be more accretive to book value than the new assets that we acquire to replace any existing assets. Our investment policy involves risks associated with the credit quality of our investments. If the credit quality of our investments declines or if there are defaults on the investments we make, our profitability may decline and we may suffer losses. Our MBS have primarily been agency certificates that, although not rated, carry an implied AAA rating. Agency certificates are MBS where either Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae guarantees payments of principal or interest on the certificates. Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae are government-sponsored enterprises and securities guaranteed by these entities are not guaranteed by the United States government. Our capital investment policy, however, provides us with the ability to acquire a material amount of lower credit quality MBS. If we acquire MBS of lower credit quality, our profitability may decline and we may incur losses if there are defaults on the mortgages backing those securities or if the rating agencies downgrade the credit quality of those securities or the securities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 35 Table of Contents Risk Related Primarily to Belvedere Trust’s Business Increased levels of prepayments from loans and MBS may decrease Belvedere Trust’s net interest income. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this results in an early return of principal and, generally, a shorter average life for the related mortgage assets. Faster than expected prepayments could harm Belvedere Trust’s profitability as follows: • Belvedere Trust may purchase mortgage loans and MBS that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time. In exchange for this higher interest rate, Belvedere Trust may pay a premium over the par value to acquire the asset. In accordance with accounting rules, Belvedere Trust amortizes this premium over the term of the mortgage-related asset. Belvedere Trust estimates prepayment speeds for the purposes of amortizing the premium or discount for each mortgage-related asset that it acquires. If the prepayment speeds for the mortgage-related asset are faster than expected, the interest income related to that asset may be reduced and the amortization of the premium may be accelerated. • Belvedere Trust anticipates that a substantial portion of its adjustable-rate mortgage loans and MBS may bear interest rates that are lower than their fully indexed rates, which are equivalent to the applicable index rate plus a margin. If an adjustable-rate mortgage-related asset is prepaid prior to or soon after the time of adjustment to a fully indexed rate, Belvedere Trust will have held that mortgage-related asset while it was less profitable and lost the opportunity to receive interest at the fully indexed rate over the remainder of its expected life. • If Belvedere Trust is unable to acquire new mortgage-related assets similar to the prepaid assets, its financial condition, results of operation and cash flow would suffer. • Certain mortgage-related assets, such as interest-only securities, bear a concentrated level of prepayment risk. Faster than expected prepayments could result in a reduction of interest income and an increase in premium amortization expense, resulting in lower net income, and may result in an impairment of the value of the asset. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. While Belvedere Trust seeks to minimize prepayment risk to the extent practical, in selecting investments, it must balance prepayment risk against other risks and the potential returns of each investment. No strategy can completely insulate Belvedere Trust from prepayment risk. Belvedere Trust’s inability to complete an initial public offering or to secure alternate sources of equity could materially harm its business and results. On May 17, 2005, Belvedere Trust filed a registration statement with the SEC for the purpose of registering up to $100 million of its common stock in connection with a contemplated IPO. In December 2005, after discussions with the underwriters, Anworth and Belvedere Trust determined that the IPO would be delayed due to current market conditions. Should Belvedere Trust be unable to complete an IPO or obtain alternate sources of equity, its ability to acquire mortgage-related assets would be materially harmed and, as a result, its business and results from operations could be materially negatively affected. Belvedere Trust’s use of short-term debt exposes us to liquidity, market value and securitization execution risks that could result in harm to our financial condition. In order to continue its securitization operations, Belvedere Trust requires access to short-term debt to finance loan inventory accumulation prior to sale to securitization entities. In times of market dislocation, this 36 Table of Contents type of short-term debt might become unavailable from time to time. During such periods, Belvedere Trust would have to reduce the volume of its holdings and the number of securitizations that it undertakes. Belvedere Trust uses the inventory of assets it acquires to collateralize the debt. The debt is recourse to Belvedere Trust and if the market value of the collateral declines, Belvedere Trust may need to use its liquidity to increase the amount of collateral pledged to secure the debt or to reduce the debt amount. Belvedere Trust’s payment of commitment fees and other expenses to secure borrowing lines may not protect it from liquidity issues or losses. Variations in lenders’ ability to access funds, lender confidence in Belvedere Trust, lender collateral requirements, available borrowing rates, the acceptability and market values of Belvedere Trust’s collateral and other factors could force Belvedere Trust to utilize its liquidity reserves or to sell assets and thus could harm its liquidity, financial soundness and earnings. If Belvedere Trust is unable to complete securitizations or experiences delayed mortgage loan sales or securitization closings, it could face a liquidity shortage, which would harm our operating results. Belvedere Trust relies significantly upon securitizations to generate cash proceeds to repay borrowings and replenish its borrowing capacity. If there is a delay in a securitization closing or any reduction in its ability to complete securitizations, Belvedere Trust may be required to utilize other sources of financing which, if available at all, may not be on similar terms. In addition, delays in closing mortgage sales or securitizations of our mortgage loans increase its risk by exposing it to credit and interest rate risks for this extended period of time. Several factors could harm Belvedere Trust’s ability to complete securitizations of its mortgage loans including, among others, the following: • conditions in the securities and secondary markets; • the credit quality of the mortgage loans acquired; • the volume of its mortgage loan acquisitions; • its ability to obtain credit enhancements; • downgrades by rating agencies of its previous securitizations; and • lack of investor demand for purchasing components of the securities. Belvedere Trust’s business may be significantly harmed by a slowdown in the economy of California, resulting in potentially higher delinquencies and increased loan losses. At December 31, 2006, approximately 52% of the residential real estate loans that Belvedere Trust owns are secured by property in California. An overall decline in the economy or the residential real estate market, or the occurrence of a natural disaster that is not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as an earthquake or hurricane, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties in California. This, in turn, would increase the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on mortgage loans underlying Belvedere Trust’s MBS. This could harm Belvedere Trust’s credit loss experience and may harm other aspects of Belvedere Trust’s business including Belvedere Trust’s ability to securitize mortgage loans. Belvedere Trust has had only limited operating history in the business of acquiring and securitizing whole mortgage loans and it may not be successful. Belvedere Trust was formed in November 2003 to engage in the business of acquiring and securitizing mortgage loans and other mortgage-related assets and it has a limited operating history. The acquisition of residential real estate loans and the securitization process are inherently complex and involve risks related to the types of mortgage loans Belvedere Trust seeks to acquire, interest rate changes, funding sources, delinquency rates, prepayment rates, borrower bankruptcies and other factors that Belvedere Trust may not be able to manage. Incorrect 37 Table of Contents management of these risks may take years to become apparent. If it fails to manage these and other risks, this could harm our business and the results of our operations. Belvedere Trust’s investment strategy of acquiring, accumulating and securitizing loans involves credit risk that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results. While Belvedere Trust securitizes the loans it acquires in order to improve its access to financing, it bears the risk of loss on any loans that it acquires and which it subsequently securitizes. Belvedere Trust has risk of loss for all loans and other mortgage-related assets it holds on its balance sheet. Belvedere Trust acquires loans and other mortgage-related assets that are typically not credit enhanced and that do not have the backing of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Accordingly, Belvedere Trust is subject to risks of borrower default, bankruptcy and special hazard losses (such as those occurring from earthquakes and hurricanes) with respect to those loans to the extent that there is any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and insurance and the principal amount of the loan and any premium paid for the loan. In the event of a default on any such loans that Belvedere Trust holds, Belvedere Trust would bear the loss of principal between the realized value of the mortgaged property and the principal amount of the loan as well as foreclosure costs and the loss of interest. We have not established any limits upon the geographic concentration or the credit quality of suppliers of the mortgage loans that Belvedere Trust acquires. Belvedere Trust’s efforts to manage credit risk may not be successful in limiting delinquencies and defaults in underlying loans or losses on its investments. At December 31, 2006, approximately 2.98% of the loans in Belvedere Trust’s portfolio, including Belvedere Trust’s first securitization (“HYB1”), were 30 days or more delinquent by outstanding principal balance. Belvedere Trust has incurred losses to date of $261 thousand. Based on current analysis, Belvedere Trust projects loan losses to approximate 0.215% of the original loan balances. This analysis is based on factors related to borrower credit, such as Fair, Isaac and Company (FICO) score, as well as the value of the underlying properties relative to the loan balances. Loan losses may be greater than Belvedere Trust anticipates. Despite its efforts to manage credit risk, there are many aspects of credit that it cannot control and there can be no assurance that Belvedere Trust’s quality control and loss mitigation operations will be successful in limiting future delinquencies, defaults and losses. Belvedere Trust’s underwriting reviews or third-party reviews may not be effective. The securitizations in which Belvedere Trust has invested may not receive funds that Belvedere Trust believes are due from mortgage insurance companies. Loan servicing companies may not cooperate with Belvedere Trust’s loss mitigation efforts, or such efforts may otherwise be ineffective. Various service providers to securitizations, such as trustees, bond insurance providers and custodians, may not perform in a manner that promotes Belvedere Trust’s interests. The value of the homes collateralizing residential loans may decline. Belvedere Trust acquires loans that allow for negative amortization; if the borrowers make payments that are less than the amount required to pay the interest due on these loans, the principal balance of the loans will increase. At December 31, 2006, 38% of Belvedere Trust’s loans allowed for negative amortization. If loans become real estate owned, servicing companies will have to manage these properties and may not be able to sell them. Changes in consumer behavior, bankruptcy laws and other laws may increase loan losses. In most cases, the value of the underlying property will be the sole source of funds for any recoveries. Expanded loss mitigation efforts in the event that defaults increase could increase Belvedere Trust’s operating costs. Belvedere Trust requires a significant amount of capital and if it is not available, its business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. Belvedere Trust requires substantial capital to fund its loan acquisitions, to pay its loan acquisition expenses and to hold its loans prior to securitization. Pending sale or securitization of a pool of mortgage loans, Belvedere Trust acquires mortgage-related assets that it expects to finance through borrowings from whole loan financing 38 Table of Contents facilities and repurchase agreements. It is possible that its lenders could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of Belvedere Trust’s performance or the performance of its loans. Belvedere Trust anticipates that its repurchase agreements will be dependent on the ability of counterparties to re-sell Belvedere Trust’s obligations to third parties. If there is a disruption of the repurchase market generally, or if one of Belvedere Trust’s counterparties is itself unable to access the repurchase market, Belvedere Trust’s access to this source of liquidity could be harmed. Capital could also be required to meet margin calls under the terms of Belvedere Trust’s borrowings in the event that there is a decline in the market value of the loans that collateralize its debt, the terms of short-term debt become less attractive, or for other reasons. Any of these events would harm Belvedere Trust’s operating results, liquidity, financial condition and earnings. To date, we have invested $100 million in Belvedere Trust to capitalize its mortgage operations. At December 31, 2006, Belvedere Trust had fully invested all of the proceeds of our investment. New investments are made by Belvedere Trust as capital is freed up from scheduled and unscheduled principal payments of its mortgage assets. Belvedere Trust monitors its portfolio on an ongoing basis and, to the extent it is deemed appropriate, securities may be sold and other investments made. If it is unable to sell additional securities on reasonable terms or at all, or it is not able to access external sources of capital, it will need to either reduce its acquisition business or sell a higher portion of its loans. In the event that Belvedere Trust’s liquidity needs exceed its access to liquidity, Belvedere Trust may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus reducing its earnings. Adverse cash flow could threaten Belvedere Trust’s ability to maintain solvency or to satisfy the income and asset tests necessary to elect and maintain REIT status. To the extent that Belvedere Trust has a large number of loans in an area affected by a natural disaster, it may suffer losses. Standard homeowner insurance policies generally do not provide coverage for natural disasters, such as hurricanes and the ensuing flooding. Furthermore, nonconforming borrowers are not likely to have special hazard insurance. To the extent that borrowers do not have insurance coverage for natural disasters, they may not be able to repair the property or may stop paying their mortgages if the property is damaged. A natural disaster that results in a significant number of delinquencies could cause increased foreclosures and decrease Belvedere Trust’s ability to recover losses on properties affected by such disasters and could harm Belvedere Trust’s retained residual interests in securitizations and thus Belvedere Trust’s financial condition and results of operations. Second-lien mortgage loans expose Belvedere Trust to greater credit risks. To the extent Belvedere Trust invests in second-lien mortgage loans, its security interests in the property securing the second-lien mortgage loans is subordinated to the interests of the first mortgage holder and the second mortgages have a higher loan-to-value ratio than does the first mortgage. If the value of the property is equal to or less than the amount needed to repay the borrower’s obligation to the first mortgage holder upon foreclosure, the second-lien mortgage loan will not be repaid. To date, Belvedere Trust has not invested in second-lien mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loan delinquencies, defaults and credit losses could reduce Belvedere Trust’s ability to complete securitizations, which could expose Belvedere Trust to risk from holding loans longer than expected. Credit losses from any of the mortgage loans in the securitized loan pools reduce the principal value of and economic returns from residential MBS. Credit losses could reduce Belvedere Trust’s ability to sponsor new securitizations of residential loans. Therefore, Belvedere Trust may have to hold loans longer on its balance sheet, which may change its risk profile with regard to credit and interest rate risk. At December 31, 2006, by outstanding principal balances, approximately 1.59% of the residential mortgage loans in Belvedere Trust’s portfolio, including Belvedere Trust’s first securitization, were 30 days delinquent, approximately 0.41% were 60 days delinquent and approximately 0.98% were 90 days delinquent. 39 Table of Contents The use of securitizations with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on Belvedere Trust’s cash flow. Belvedere Trust does not currently use securitizations with over-collateralization requirements but may do so in the future. If Belvedere Trust utilizes over-collateralization as a credit enhancement to its securitizations, Belvedere Trust expects that such over-collateralization will restrict its cash flow if loan delinquencies exceed certain levels. The terms of Belvedere Trust’s securitizations will generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed the specified levels based on rating agencies’ (or the financial guaranty insurer’s, if applicable) analysis of the characteristics of the loans pledged to collateralize the securities, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses and/or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict Belvedere Trust’s ability to receive net interest income from a securitization transaction. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. Failure to satisfy performance tests may harm our results of operations. Representations and warranties made by Belvedere Trust in loan sales and securitizations may subject Belvedere Trust to liability that could result in loan losses and could harm our operating results. In connection with securitizations, Belvedere Trust makes representations and warranties regarding the mortgage-related assets transferred into securitization trusts. The trustee in the securitizations has recourse to Belvedere Trust with respect to the breach of the standard representations and warranties regarding the loans made at the time such mortgage-related assets are transferred. While Belvedere Trust generally has recourse to its loan originators for any such breaches, there can be no assurance of the originators’ abilities to honor their respective obligations. Belvedere Trust attempts to generally limit the potential remedies of the trustee to the potential remedies Belvedere Trust receives from the originators from whom Belvedere Trust acquired the mortgage loans. However, in some cases, the remedies available to the trustee may be broader than those available to Belvedere Trust against the originators of the mortgage-related assets and, should the trustee enforce its remedies against Belvedere Trust, it may not always be able to enforce whatever remedies it has against its loan originators. Furthermore, if Belvedere Trust discovers, prior to the securitization of a loan, that there is any fraud or misrepresentation with respect to the mortgage and the originator fails to repurchase the mortgage, then Belvedere Trust may not be able to sell the mortgage or may have to sell the mortgage at a discount. The mortgage-related assets Belvedere Trust owns expose it to concentrated risks and thus are likely to lead to variable returns. Belvedere Trust’s permanent asset portfolio produces a significant amount of its revenue. It consists principally of mortgage loans that have been securitized by Belvedere Trust and, to a lesser extent, securities acquired from securitizations sponsored by others. The mortgage-related assets Belvedere Trust owns employ a high degree of internal structural leverage that concentrates risk into the assets that Belvedere Trust acquires. No amount of risk management or mitigation can change the variable nature of cash flows, market values and financial results generated by concentrated risks in Belvedere Trust’s mortgage-related investments which, in turn, can result in variable returns to Belvedere Trust. Due to the concentration of risks, the assets Belvedere Trust holds may be exposed to greater credit, interest rate and prepayment risk. The success of Belvedere Trust’s business will depend upon its ability to determine that mortgage loans are serviced effectively. The success of Belvedere Trust’s mortgage loan business will depend to a great degree upon its ability to determine that its mortgage loans are serviced effectively. In general, it is Belvedere Trust’s intention to acquire loans “servicing retained,” where the loans will be serviced by the originating or selling institution. Belvedere Trust has no experience servicing a portfolio of loans. In those instances where Belvedere Trust is required to purchase the servicing of a loan portfolio in order to acquire a portfolio with desirable attributes, Belvedere Trust 40 Table of Contents will be required to sell the servicing rights, implement a servicing function or transfer the servicing of the loans to a third party with whom Belvedere Trust has established a sub-servicing relationship. We cannot assure you that Belvedere Trust will be able to service the loans or effectively supervise a sub-servicing relationship according to industry standards. Failure to service the loans properly will harm Belvedere Trust’s business and operating results. Prior to either building the servicing capabilities that Belvedere Trust may require or acquiring an existing servicing operation that has such capabilities, if ever, Belvedere Trust has contracted with an experienced servicer of the type of loans it acquires to “sub-service” its loans. The fees paid to such subservicer will reduce, to a certain extent, the revenue Belvedere Trust is able to retain from its mortgage loans and Belvedere Trust’s net interest income will be reduced and at risk, depending on the effectiveness of the servicing company. Belvedere Trust acquires and owns “interest-only” loans which expose it to increased risk of default. A portion of the loans Belvedere Trust acquires have interest-only features during the initial term of the loan. At December 31, 2006, 41% of the loans Belvedere Trust owned had interest-only features as measured by outstanding principal balance. These loans permit borrowers not to begin repayment of the principal balance of the loans until after the interest-only period expires. After the expiration of the interest-only period, the borrowers’ payments increase to amortize the entire principal balance owed over the remaining life of the loan. Variable-rate interest-only products, especially when coupled with an amortization feature that begins at a time in the future, can significantly increase the payment obligation. Consequently, there is a risk that these mortgagors may be unable to make the increased payments and could default under these loans. In the event the performance of Belvedere Trust’s interest-only loans is below expectations, its operating results, financial condition and business prospects could be harmed. Belvedere Trust has acquired most of its mortgage-related assets from a limited number of originators and the failure to properly manage these relationships, or if these originators experience origination problems, Belvedere Trust’s ability to acquire loans from them could be harmed, which would negatively affect its operations. Belvedere Trust has acquired most of its mortgage-related assets from a limited number of originators. At December 31, 2006, approximately 60% of the loans acquired by Belvedere Trust had been originated by Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. and 18% had been originated by Washington Mutual Bank, N.A. and its affiliates, as measured by outstanding principal balance as of that date. If Belvedere Trust is unable to properly manage these relationships, or if these originators experience significant problems with their origination capabilities, Belvedere Trust’s ability to acquire loans from them may be harmed and its results from operations may be negatively affected. Belvedere Trust has acquired non-investment grade securities which bear a greater risk of credit losses. Belvedere Trust has acquired non-investment grade securities which include first loss, second loss and third loss securities. Credit losses are generally allocated to securities in order, beginning with the first loss security up to a maximum of the principal amount of the first loss security. Losses are then allocated in order to the second loss, third loss and more senior securities. Since these securities include the first loss security, we bear primary credit risk associated with mortgages with a face value of $1.5 billion as of December 31,2006. Additionally, when Belvedere Trust acquires these securities, the purchase price generally includes a discount associated with this credit risk. Belvedere Trust evaluates the discount against any probable losses. If, subsequent to the acquisition of the securities, the estimated losses exceed the discount, this would cause a reduction in earnings. 41 Table of Contents Belvedere Trust is externally managed and this may diminish or eliminate the return on our investment in this line of business. Belvedere Trust is externally managed pursuant to a management agreement between Belvedere Trust and BT Management. Although we own 50% of BT Management, 45% is also owned by the executive officers of Belvedere Trust and 5% by Lloyd McAdams. Our ability to generate profits from our ownership of Belvedere Trust, if any, could be greatly diminished due to the fact that we will be required to pay a base management fee to BT Management and we may also be required to pay an incentive fee. An externally managed structure may not optimize our interest in Belvedere Trust and, if we are unable to properly manage fixed costs at Belvedere Trust could, when combined with the base management fee, result in losses at Belvedere Trust. Our Chairman has an ownership interest in BT Management that creates potential conflicts of interest. Lloyd McAdams, our Chairman and Principal Executive Officer, has a direct ownership interest in BT Management that creates potential conflicts of interest. Mr. McAdams is Chairman of the Board and Principal Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Managers of BT Management and owns an equity interest in BT Management. Under the management agreement between Belvedere Trust and BT Management, BT Management is entitled to earn certain incentive compensation based on the level of Belvedere Trust’s annualized net income. In evaluating mortgage assets for investment and with respect to other management strategies, an undue emphasis on the maximization of income at the expense of other criteria could result in increased risk to the value of our portfolio. Risks Related to REIT Compliance and Other Matters If we are disqualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. We believe that, since our IPO in 1998, we have operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code and we intend to continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a REIT. Nevertheless, we may not remain qualified as a REIT in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could require us to pay a penalty or jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might change tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effects that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means being unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and being subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification and thus our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we do not qualify as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our MBS and other assets including our stock in Belvedere Trust, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We 42 Table of Contents may also be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may substantially limit our ability to hedge MBS and related borrowings by requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualifying and non-qualifying hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified sources, to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualifying hedging, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources, other than from qualified REIT real estate assets or qualified hedges, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we were to violate the 25% or 5% limitations, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of those limitations, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. If we fail to satisfy the 25% and 5% limitations, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, we could lose our REIT status for federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments or to make investments inconsistent with our business plan. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must also determine that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer. The 5% and 10% limitations described above will apply to our investment in Belvedere Trust unless Belvedere Trust is a qualified REIT subsidiary of ours (i.e., we own 100% of Belvedere Trust’s outstanding stock), Belvedere Trust is a qualified REIT or Belvedere Trust is a taxable REIT subsidiary of ours. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we must dispose of a portion of our assets within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. The need to comply with these gross income and asset tests may cause us to acquire other assets that are qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT requirements that are not part of our overall business strategy and might not otherwise be the best investment alternative for us. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute 90% of our annual taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. For example, our taxable income would exceed our net income for financial reporting purposes to the extent that compensation paid to our Principal Executive Officer and our other four highest paid officers exceeds $1 million for any such officer for any calendar year under Section 162(m) of the Code. Since payments under our 2002 Incentive Plan do not qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), a portion of the payments made under the 2002 Incentive Plan to certain of our officers would not be deductible for federal income tax purposes under such circumstances. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we may be unable to distribute substantially all of our taxable income as required by the REIT provisions of the Code. Thus, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our MBS at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. 43 Table of Contents Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates. Tax legislation enacted in 2003 reduced the maximum United States federal tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers to 15% (through 2010). Dividends paid by REITs to these stockholders are generally not eligible for these reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to non-REIT corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. If Belvedere Trust fails to qualify as a REIT, a qualified REIT subsidiary or a taxable REIT subsidiary, we may lose our REIT status. As long as we own 100% of Belvedere Trust’s outstanding stock, Belvedere Trust will be treated as a qualified REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes. As such, for federal income tax purposes, we will not be treated as owning stock in Belvedere Trust and Belvedere Trust’s assets, liabilities and income will generally be treated as our assets, liabilities and income for purposes of the REIT qualification tests described above under “Certain Federal Income Tax Considerations.” If, however, we do not own 100% of Belvedere Trust’s outstanding stock and Belvedere Trust does not qualify as a REIT, a qualified REIT subsidiary or a taxable REIT subsidiary, we will lose our REIT status if, at the end of any calendar quarter, the value of our Belvedere Trust securities exceeds 5% of the value of our total assets or we own more than 10% of the value or voting power of Belvedere Trust’s outstanding securities. If we fail to satisfy the 5% test or the 10% test at the end of any calendar quarter, a 30-day “cure” period may apply following the close of the quarter. If we make an election to treat Belvedere Trust as a taxable REIT subsidiary, the total value of any securities we own in Belvedere Trust and all of our other taxable REIT subsidiaries, if any, may not exceed 20% of the value of our total assets at the end of any calendar quarter. Since Belvedere Trust may elect to be taxed as a REIT in the future, however, we do not intend to make a taxable REIT subsidiary election for Belvedere Trust. In the event of a more than de minimis failure of the 20% asset test, we will not lose our REIT status as long as (i) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, (ii) we dispose of the assets causing the failure or otherwise comply with the 20% asset test within six months after the last day of the applicable quarter in which we identify such failure, and (iii) we pay a tax equal to the greater of $50 thousand or 35% of the net income from the non-qualifying assets during the period in which we failed the 20% asset test. If there is more than a de minimis failure of the 20% asset test and we do not satisfy the requirements described in the preceding sentence, we would lose our REIT status. If Belvedere Trust fails to qualify as a REIT, Belvedere Trust will be subject to corporate income taxes on its taxable income, which will reduce the amount available for distribution to us. Though Belvedere Trust was formed as a qualified REIT subsidiary, it may elect to be taxed as a REIT in the future, possibly as early as its taxable year ending December 31, 2007. Although Belvedere Trust expects to operate in a manner to permit it to qualify as a REIT, if and when it makes a REIT election, and to continue to maintain such qualification, the actual results of Belvedere Trust’s operations for any particular taxable year may not satisfy these requirements. If Belvedere Trust fails to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year after it makes a REIT election, and the relief provisions of the Code do not apply, Belvedere Trust will be required to pay tax on Belvedere Trust’s taxable income in that taxable year and all subsequent taxable years at regular corporate rates. Distributions to us in any year in which Belvedere Trust fails to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible by Belvedere Trust. As a result, we anticipate that if Belvedere Trust failed to qualify as a REIT after it makes a REIT election, this would reduce the cash available for distribution to us. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, if Belvedere Trust fails to maintain its REIT status after it makes a REIT election, Belvedere Trust will also be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. 44 Table of Contents We conduct a portion of our business through taxable REIT subsidiaries, which could have adverse tax consequences. We conduct a portion of our business, including securitizations, through taxable REIT subsidiaries, such as BT Finance. Despite our qualification as a REIT, our taxable REIT subsidiaries must pay federal income tax on their taxable income. In addition, we must comply with various tests to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and our income from, and investments in, our taxable REIT subsidiaries generally does not constitute permissible income and investments for these tests. While we attempt to determine that our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely affect our REIT qualification, no assurance can be given that we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be subject to a 100% penalty tax, or our taxable REIT subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be arm’s length in nature. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property but including any mortgage loans, held in inventory primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to sell a loan or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of such inventory for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions even though such sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial for us. In addition, this prohibition may limit our ability to restructure our investment portfolio of mortgage loans from time to time, even if we believe that it would be in our best interest to do so. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We believe that we conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we fail to continue to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business as planned. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” Under the SEC’s current interpretation, qualification for this exemption generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying real estate interests. MBS that do not represent all the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and thus may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Therefore, our ownership of these MBS is limited by the Investment Company Act. In meeting the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, we treat as qualifying interests MBS issued with respect to an underlying pool for which we hold all issued certificates. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our MBS under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, in order to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company, we may be precluded from acquiring MBS whose yield is somewhat higher than the yield on MBS that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. We may incur excess inclusion income that would increase the tax liability of our stockholders. In general, dividend income that a tax-exempt entity receives from us should not constitute unrelated business taxable income as defined in Section 512 of the Code. If we realize excess inclusion income and allocate it to stockholders, however, then this income would be fully taxable as unrelated business taxable income under Section 512 of the Code. If the stockholder is foreign, it would generally be subject to United States federal 45 Table of Contents income tax withholding on this income without reduction pursuant to any otherwise applicable income tax treaty. United States stockholders would not be able to offset such income with their operating losses. We generally structure our borrowing arrangements in a manner designed to avoid generating significant amounts of excess inclusion income. However, excess inclusion income could result if we held a residual interest in a REMIC. Excess inclusion income also may be generated if we were to issue debt obligations with two or more maturities and the terms of the payments on these obligations bore a relationship to the payments that we received on our mortgage loans or MBS securing those debt obligations. For example, we may engage in non-REMIC CMO securitizations. We also enter into various repurchase agreements that have differing maturity dates and afford the lender the right to sell any pledged mortgage securities if we default on our obligations. The IRS may determine that these transactions give rise to excess inclusion income that should be allocated among our stockholders. We may invest in equity securities of other REITs and it is possible that we might receive excess inclusion income from those investments. Some types of entities, including, without limitation, voluntarily employee benefit associations and entities that have borrowed funds to acquire their shares of our stock, may be required to treat a portion of or all of the dividends they receive from us as unrelated business taxable income. Misplaced reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of MBS and government securities could result in a failure to comply with REIT gross income or asset tests. When purchasing MBS and government securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents, for purposes of determining whether and to what extent those securities constitute REIT real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produce income that qualifies under the REIT income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinions or statements may harm our REIT qualification and result in significant corporate level tax. Additional Risk Factors We may not be able to use the money we raise to acquire investments at favorable prices. We intend to seek to raise additional capital from time to time if we determine that it is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, including through public offerings of our stock. The net proceeds of any offering could represent a significant increase in our equity. Depending on the amount of leverage that we use, the full investment of the net proceeds of any offering might result in a substantial increase in our total assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to invest all of such additional funds in mortgage-related assets at favorable prices. We may not be able to acquire enough mortgage-related assets to become fully invested after an offering, or we may have to pay more for MBS than we have historically. In either case, the return that we earn on stockholders’ equity may be reduced. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends to them in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our common stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level for our common stockholders and our ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risk factors described in this annual report on Form 10-K. All distributions to our common stockholders will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. 46 Table of Contents If we raise additional capital, our earnings per share and dividends per share may decline since we may not be able to invest all of the new capital during the quarter in which additional shares are sold and possibly the entire following calendar quarter. Our future offerings of debt or preferred equity securities may harm the value of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that we may issue up to 20 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. In addition to our outstanding shares of Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock and Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, we currently have an agreement with Cantor pursuant to which we may issue up to 2.0 million shares of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on parity with or senior to our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock could have the effect of diluting the amounts we may have available for distribution to holders of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock and Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all our existing and future debt. None of the provisions relating to our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock contain any provisions affording the holders of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock protection in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, that might harm the holders of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Our charter does not permit ownership of over 9.8% of our common or preferred stock and attempts to acquire our common or preferred stock in excess of the 9.8% limit are void without prior approval from our board of directors. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification and for other reasons, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our charter’s ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the board of directors shall be void and will result in the shares being transferred by operation of law to a charitable trust. Our board of directors has granted four unrelated third party institutional investors exemptions from the 9.8% ownership limitation as set forth in our charter documents. These exemptions permit these entities to hold up to 20.00%, 20.00% and 17.04% of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock, respectively. Because provisions contained in Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect, investors may be prevented from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. Provisions contained in our charter and bylaws, as well as Maryland corporate law, may have anti-takeover effects that delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt, which may prevent stockholders from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. For example, these provisions may defer or prevent tender offers for our common stock or purchases of large blocks of our common stock, thereby limiting the opportunities for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include the following: • Ownership limit. The ownership limit in our charter limits related investors including, among other things, any voting group, from acquiring over 9.8% of our common stock or more than 9.8% of our preferred stock without our permission. 47 Table of Contents • Preferred Stock. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and to establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. These actions can be taken without soliciting stockholder approval. • Maryland business combination statute. Maryland law restricts the ability of holders of more than 10% of the voting power of a corporation’s shares to engage in a business combination with the corporation. • Maryland control share acquisition statute. Maryland law limits the voting rights of “control shares” of a corporation in the event of a “control share acquisition.” Issuances of large amounts of our stock could cause the price of our stock to decline. We may issue additional shares of common stock or shares of preferred stock that are convertible into common stock. If we issue a significant number of shares of common stock or convertible preferred stock in a short period of time, there could be a dilution of the existing common stock and a decrease in the market price of the common stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock, Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock, Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock for the purposes of dividend distributions, may harm the market price of our common stock, Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our preferred stock may have a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our common stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock. Our charter provides that we may issue up to 20 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The issuance of additional preferred stock on parity with or senior to the Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock could have the effect of diluting the amounts we may have available for distribution to holders of the Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. The Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock and Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock will be subordinated to all our existing and future debt. Thus, our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stockholders and our Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock or Series B Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 