ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the following risk factors, you should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and assumptions discussed herein, and in other documents that the Company subsequently files with the SEC that update, supplement or supersede such information for which documents are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or which the Company considers immaterial based on information currently available to it may also materially adversely affect the Company. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described herein occur, the Company’s business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in the market price of the Company’s common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Outbreaks of poultry disease, such as avian influenza, or the perception that outbreaks may occur, can significantly restrict the Company’s ability to conduct its operations. Events beyond the Company’s control, such as the outbreak of avian influenza in 2006, may restrict the Company’s ability to conduct its operations and sales. An outbreak of disease may result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of products from the Company’s customers, or require the Company to destroy one or more of its flocks. This may result in the cancellation of orders by the Company’s customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, reputation and prospects. -13- Worldwide fears about avian diseases, such as avian influenza, have depressed and may continue to adversely impact the Company’s sales. Avian influenza is a respiratory disease of birds. The milder forms occur occasionally around the world. A highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H5N1, has affected Asia since 2002. It is widely believed that H5N1 is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There have also been some cases where H5N1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans as humans came into contact with live birds that were infected with the disease. The Company’s flocks have never been infected with the H5N1 virus. Although there are vaccines available for H5N1 and other forms of avian influenza, and the Company vaccinates its breeding stock against avian influenza in accordance with PRC government mandates, there is no guarantee that the disease can be completely prevented as the virus continues to mutate. The Company does not typically have long-term purchase contracts with its customers and its customers have in the past, and may at any time in the future, reduce or cease purchasing products from the Company, which may adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company typically does not have long-term volume purchase contracts with its customers, and they are not obligated to purchase products from the Company. Accordingly, the Company’s customers may at any time reduce their purchases from the Company or cease purchasing the Company’s products altogether. In addition, any decline in demand for the Company’s products and any other negative development affecting the Company’s major customers or the poultry industry in general may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. For example, if any of the Company’s customers experience serious financial difficulties, it may lead to a decline in sales of the Company’s products to such customers and the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected through, among other things, decreased sales volumes and write-offs of accounts receivable related to sales to such customers. The Company’s failure to compete with other poultry companies, especially companies with greater resources, may adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese poultry industry is highly competitive. In general, competitive factors in the Chinese broiler, or chicken, industry include price, product quality, brand identification, breadth of product line and customer service. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to manage costs and be efficient in the highly competitive poultry industry. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and marketing resources. As a result, the Company may not be able to successfully increase its market penetration or its overall share in the poultry market. Increased competition may result in price reductions, increased sales incentive offerings, lower gross margins, sales expenses, marketing programs and expenditures to expand channels to market. The Company’s competitors may offer products with better market acceptance, better price or better quality. The Company’s business may be adversely affected if it is unable to maintain current product cost reductions, or achieve future product cost reductions. If the Company fails to address these competitive challenges, there may be a material adverse effect upon its business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, the Company is required to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to its internal control over financial reporting. If the Company fails to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or if it fails to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, its business, results of operations and financial condition and the market price of its common stock may be adversely affected. As a public company, the Company is required under applicable law and regulations to design and implement internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate its existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The Company’s management concluded that a material weakness existed as of December 31, 2009 with respect to its compliance with Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as certain related party loans between the Company and Shandong Yuhe Food Group Co., Ltd. constituted prohibited transactions under Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. All such related party loans were repaid by the end of February 2010. In addition, there were certain audit adjustments identified by the Company’s former independent auditors related to the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 indicating a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The adjustments were mainly related to transferring amounts from work-in-progress to fixed assets, separating the current portion of long-term debt from long-term debt, and verifying the nature of capital leases and operating leases. Although the Company has implemented measures to address the material weaknesses, it cannot assure you that it will not identify control deficiencies that may constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in its internal controls in the future. As a result, the Company may be required to implement further remedial measures and to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through future reviews. This could result in significant delays and costs to the Company and require it to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. -14- If the Company does not fully remediate the material weaknesses identified by management or fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls in the future, the Company may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with respect to internal control over financial reporting on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which in turn could harm the Company’s business and negatively impact the trading price of its common stock. The Company uses company-controlled personal bank accounts of certain of its employees for transit purposes to transact a substantial amount of its business and the Company transacts a significant amount of its business in cash without using bank accounts. The Company uses company-controlled personal bank accounts of certain of its employees for transit purposes to transact a substantial portion of its business instead of its own bank accounts. As an industry practice in the rural areas of northern China, where the Company’s operations are primarily conducted, personal bank accounts of employees are commonly used for transit purposes for a company’s business. Individual suppliers and customers in the rural areas of China prefer these transactions as a more secure replacement for physical cash transactions due to the underdevelopment of the banking system in such areas. In addition, since banks in China do not accept corporate transactions on weekends, the Company cannot use corporate bank accounts to process transactions on weekends. The Company believes that the use of company-controlled personal bank accounts of its employees provides the Company with greater convenience and stronger control of asset management safety compared to physical cash transactions in these areas and under these circumstances. The Company has established certain systematic controls over these personal bank accounts and has implemented a set of management procedures to monitor the use of these accounts. The procedures the Company has established for monitoring these accounts include the mandatory use of physical cards for access control, the Company’s management of the passcodes to these accounts and the Company’s requirement that the holders of these accounts enter into agreements with the Company with respect to the use of these accounts. An employee who is the record owner of those bank accounts cannot use them in practice because the Company controls both the bank cards physically and the account passwords. Such employee does not possess the bank card and does not know the password. However, since the Company does not own these personal bank accounts, potential disputes may arise with respect to the control of such accounts. In addition, if the Company fails to properly manage and control the personal bank accounts, the Company could be subject to compliance risks and potential loss of its assets. Cash transactions account for less than one-third of the Company’s revenue and expenditures. The Company receives 20% to 30% of its revenue in the form of cash, and approximately 30% of expenditures are made through cash payments, the majority of which are directly drawn from the cash income received. Cash income is mainly received from livestock farmers for their purchases of the Company’s products, and cash expenditures are primarily made to the farmers for their provision of corn, the Company’s feed ingredient. These farmers do not accept payments in the form of bank transfers, but use cash transactions instead. It is a standard industry practice in China to conduct business with local farming communities on a cash basis, and currently it is also the only viable means of payment to local farmers. The Company is not aware of any Chinese companies within its industry that have completely eliminated cash transactions when dealing with local farmers. The Company reserves an adequate amount of cash on hand to meet its payment obligations and does not deposit all cash income into banks, as may be the practice in other industries, because Chinese banks place restrictions on the number and size of cash withdrawals. The nature of the Company’s business requires a large amount of cash for transaction purposes, and the Company has implemented a series of management measures on cash control, including a cap on the amount of cash transactions and requirements relating to the maintenance of daily inventory, daily updates to the cash account record and the submission of supporting documents along with each receipt. To date, the Company has not experienced any cash losses, and it is gradually reducing the cash portion of its income and expenditures. However, if the Company fails to properly manage and control such cash transactions in the future, the Company may be exposed to potential compliance risks and loss of its cash, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company conducts substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, and the Company’s performance will depend upon the performance of its subsidiaries. The Company has no operations independent of those of Bright Stand and its PRC subsidiaries, PRC Yuhe and Taihong. As a result, the Company is dependent upon the performance of Bright Stand and its subsidiaries and the Company’s performance will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting such subsidiaries as well as general economic and financial conditions. In addition, the Company is dependent on the cash flow of its subsidiaries to meet its obligations. -15- Because virtually all of the Company’s assets are held by its operating subsidiaries, the claims of the Company’s shareholders will be structurally subordinate to all existing and future liabilities and obligations, as well as trade payables of such subsidiaries. In the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, its assets and those of its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the rights of the Company’s shareholders only after all of Bright Stand and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. The Company’s sales revenue may be adversely affected by various factors, including demand for the Company’s products, sales price and general market conditions. Demand for the Company’s products is affected by a number of factors, including the general demand for the products in the end markets that the Company serves and the sales prices of its products. A vast majority of the Company’s sales is derived directly or indirectly from customers who are broiler raisers and large integrated chicken companies whose day-old broiler production is not sufficient for their own use. Any significant decrease in the demand for day-old broilers may result in a decrease in the Company’s revenues and earnings. A variety of factors, including economic, health and regulatory factors and political and social instability, may contribute to a slowdown in the demand for day-old broilers. Industry cyclicality, especially fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients and breeding stock, may affect the Company’s earnings. Currently, all the Company’s raw materials are procured in China. Profitability in the poultry industry is materially affected by the supply of parent breeding stocks and the commodity prices of feed ingredients, including corn, soybean cake, and other nutrition ingredients from numerous sources, mainly from wholesalers who collect the feed ingredients directly from farmers. As a result, the poultry industry is subject to wide fluctuations and cycles. These commodity prices are determined by supply and demand. The Company cannot eliminate the risk of increased operating costs from commodity price increases, and it is very difficult to predict when the feed price spiral cycles will occur. Various factors can affect the supply of corn and soybean meal, which are the primary ingredients of the feed the Company uses for parent breeding stocks. In particular, weather patterns, the level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, and the agricultural policies of the Chinese government affect the supply of feed ingredients. Weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns may affect supplies of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry’s and the Company’s ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow chickens or deliver products. Increases in the prices of feed ingredients may result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. The supply of parent breeding stocks is also cyclical. The Company purchases parent breeding stocks from multiple suppliers. If the Company fails to maintain adequate breeding stock, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The cessation of tax exemptions by the Chinese government may affect the Company’s profitability. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new enterprise income tax law, or the New Tax Law, whereby both FIEs and domestic companies will be subject to a uniform income tax rate of 25%. On December 6, 2007, the State Council of China promulgated the Implementation Rules of the New Tax Law, or the Implementation Rules. Effective on January 1, 2008, both the New Tax Law and the Implementation Rules provide tax exemption or reduction treatment for enterprises engaged in agricultural industries, such as farming, foresting, fishing and animal husbandry. As an enterprise engaged in the farming industry, PRC Yuhe is eligible for exemption and is not required to pay company income tax. If PRC Yuhe loses the tax exemption treatment as of result of any future changes to the New Tax Law and Implementation Rules, its business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s business may be adversely affected due to inaccuracy in its sales forecasts. The Company procures raw materials and produces its day-old broilers based on its sales forecasts. If the Company fails to accurately forecast demand for its products, it may produce excessive breeding stock, which may result in lower prices in order to sell its inventory and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. -16- The Company’s products may contain undetected defects that are not discovered until after shipping. The Company’s products may contain undetected defects, which may result in a loss or delay in market acceptance of its products and thus harm its reputation and results of operations. The Company has sustained losses in the past and cannot guarantee profitability in the future. The Company sustained losses in 2006 and there is no assurance that it will continue to be profitable in the future. In addition, the Company’s business was impacted in 2006 due to the outbreak of avian influenza. A variety of factors may cause the Company’s operating results to decline and its financial condition to worsen, including: · competitors offering comparable products at lower prices; · continuing downward pressure on the average selling prices of the Company’s products caused by intense competition in its industry and general market conditions; · superior product innovations by competitors; · rising raw material costs; · changes to management and key personnel; and · increased operating expenses relating to research and development, sales and marketing efforts and general and administrative expenses as the Company seeks to grow its business. As a result, the Company may fail to achieve its revenue expectation or experience higher-than-expected operating expenses, which may materially and adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge its future prospects and operating results. The Company has a limited operating history with respect to its current business, which may not provide a sufficient basis on which to evaluate its business or future prospects. Although the Company’s sales have grown rapidly in recent years, it cannot assure you that it will maintain profitability or that it will not incur net losses in the future. The Company expects that its operating expenses will increase as it expands, a failure to realize anticipated sales growth may result in significant operating losses. The Company will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including its potential failure to: · implement its business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; · maintain its current, and develop new, relationships with customers; · manage its expanding operations and product offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · maintain adequate control of expenses; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; · protect its reputation and enhance customer loyalty; and · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the poultry industry as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving the Company’s competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market factors. If the Company is not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, its business may be materially and adversely affected. -17- The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel may impair the Company’s ability to grow its business. The Company relies heavily on the services of its key employees, including Gao Zhentao, its Chief Executive Officer, Han Chengxiang, its Chief Production Officer, and Gang Hu, its Chief Financial Officer. In addition, the Company’s engineers and other key technical personnel constitute the Company’s significant assets and are the source of its technological and product innovations. The Company depends substantially on the leadership of a small number of farm directors and technicians who are devoted to research and development. However, the Company does not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of its senior management or other key employees. Additionally, approximately 90% of the Company’s products are sold through third-party distributors. Most of them are exclusive distributors and the Company expects them to be its future main sales force. The Company believes its future success will depend upon its ability to retain these key employees, engineers and technical personnel, and sales distributors. If the Company fails to attract and retain sufficient numbers of technical personnel to support its anticipated growth, if its current key employees and distributors decide not to continue to work with the Company, or if the Company is not able to obtain the services of additional personnel necessary for its growth, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to sell its products, as well as on its overall growth. In addition, if any members of the Company’s senior management or any of its other key personnel join a competitor or form a competing company, the Company may lose customers, business partners, key professionals and staff members, which may materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not have any registered patents or other registered intellectual property on its production processes and the Company may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of its processes. The Company has no patents or registered intellectual property covering its production processes and the Company relies on the confidentiality of its processes in producing a competitive product. The confidentiality of the Company’s know-how may not be maintained and the Company may lose any meaningful competitive advantage that might arise from its proprietary processes. The Company may not be able to collect receivables incurred by customers. Although the Company currently sells its products on a cash-payment basis, the Company’s ability to receive payment for its products depends on the continued creditworthiness of its customers. In order to pay the Company’s expansion costs, the Company may be required to make sales to customers who are less creditworthy than its historical customers. The Company’s customer base may change if its sales increase because of the Company’s expanded capacity. If the Company is not able to collect its receivables, its revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. The Company does not have insurance coverage for its properties or assets. The Company and its subsidiaries are not covered by any insurance. As a result, any material loss or damage to the Company’s properties or other assets, or personal injuries arising from its operations, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operations. Increased water, energy and gas costs would increase the Company’s expenses and reduce its profitability. The Company requires a substantial amount, and as it expands its business will require additional amounts, of water, electricity and natural gas to produce and process its broiler products. The prices of water, electricity and natural gas fluctuate significantly over time. The Company may not be able to pass on increased costs of production to its customers. As a result, increases in the cost of water, electricity or natural gas may substantially affect the Company’s business and results of operations. Increased costs of transportation would negatively affect the Company’s profitability. The Company’s transportation costs are a material portion of the cost of its products. The Company primarily ships its products and receives its inputs via truck and rely on third-party transportation companies for the delivery of most of its products and inputs. The costs associated with the transportation of the Company’s products and inputs fluctuate with the price of fuel, the costs to the Company’s transportation providers of labor and the capacity of the Company’s transportation sources. Increases in costs of transportation have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company’s profitability. -18- RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s political or economic situation may adversely affect the Company’s operational results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the Chinese government may change these economic reforms or the Chinese legal system at any time. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and profitability. Some of the factors that may have such an effect are: • Level of the government involvement in the economy; • Control of foreign exchange; • Methods of allocating resources; • Balance of payments position; • International trade restrictions; and • International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, the Company’s may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The Company’s business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your ability to legally protect your investment may be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used in the Chinese legal system. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties may limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, most of the Company’s executive officers and directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult, if not impossible, for investors to effect service of process in the United States, or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against the Company or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which the Company must conduct its business activities. China has only recently permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. The Company’s ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its economic policies and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. The Company believes that its operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on the Company’s part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, may have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof. Future inflation in China may inhibit the Company’s activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and widely fluctuating rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various austerity measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and constrain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which may inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for the Company’s products. -19- Restrictions on currency exchange may limit the Company’s ability to receive and use its revenues effectively. The majority of the Company’s revenues is denominated in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit the Company’s ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. The Company cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of the Company’s common stock may be affected by the foreign exchange rates between other currencies and Renminbi. The value of the Company’s common stock may be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that the Company needs to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for its operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, the Company’s financial position, its business and the price of its common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if the Company decides to convert its Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on its common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Company’s earnings from its subsidiaries in China would be reduced. The Company’s business is regulated by the PRC farming authorities and the Company needs production permits and immunization certificates from the farming authorities to carry out its business. Any suspension, discontinuation or revocation of its current production permits or immunization certificates may materially and adversely impact the Company’s business. The Farming Bureau of Shandong Province and its local counterpart in Weifang City are the primary governmental regulators and supervisors of both PRC Yuhe and Taihong’s current businesses. Under relevant laws and regulations, both PRC Yuhe and Taihong must obtain production permits from the Farming Bureau of Shandong Province and the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out their current businesses. In addition, PRC Yuhe, as a company engaging in the breeder business, must obtain an immunization certificate from the local Farming Bureau in Weifang City. Although relevant PRC laws require the Additive Premix Feed Production License to be inspected by the local government authority on an annual basis, the local government authority has not set up the procedures for the Company to proceed with such annual inspection for Taihong. The local government authority has no requirement for Taihong to operate with such annual inspection records. However, the Company cannot assure you that such practice will not change or that the Company will pass future annual inspections, if required by the relevant local government authority. The Farming Bureau authorities have been strengthening their supervision over the breeder and feed businesses in the past years, and new PRC laws, rules and regulations may be introduced to impose additional requirements for relevant production permits or immunization certificates. The Company cannot assure you that its current production permits and immunization certificates will remain in effect in the future. Any suspension, discontinuation or revocation of the Company’s current production permits or immunization certificates may result in a material and adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial performance and prospects. The Company may in the future be subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, which could be significant. The Company’s operations are subject to various laws and regulations, including those governing wastewater discharges and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, the imposition of new or additional requirements and changing interpretations by governmental agencies or courts. In addition, the Company anticipates increased regulation by various governmental agencies concerning food safety, use of medication in feed formulations, the disposal of animal by-products and wastewater discharges. Furthermore, business operations currently conducted by the Company or previously conducted by others at real property owned or operated by the Company, business operations of others at real property formerly owned or operated by the Company and the disposal of waste at third-party sites expose the Company to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The Company may incur material costs or liabilities in connection with claims related to any of the foregoing. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations and other unanticipated events may give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. -20- Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to corporate restructurings by PRC residents may have adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Six Chinese ministries jointly promulgated the Rules on Mergers with and Acquisitions of PRC Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, on August 8, 2006. The M&A Rules became effective on September 8, 2006 and were amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules subject acquisitions of domestic companies by offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, controlled by PRC residents, who at the same time are controlling shareholders of the domestic companies, or an Affiliated Acquisition, to the approval of Ministry of Commerce. There are also various stringent requirements applicable to foreign acquisition of domestic companies through SPVs under the M&A Rules. The Company undertook a corporate restructuring in 2007 under which Bright Stand, a company owned by Mr. Kunio Yamamoto, acquired control of PRC Yuhe and Taihong from certain PRC resident shareholders, including Mr. Gao Zhentao. At that time Mr. Yamamoto, the sole shareholder of Bright Stand, and Mr. Gao Zhentao, the Company’s chief executive officer, had a general, verbal and informal understanding pursuant to which all or part of the Company’s shares of common stock issued to Mr. Kunio Yamamoto would be transferred to Mr. Gao Zhentao in the future in consideration of Mr. Gao Zhentao’s commitment to management of the Company’s business operations and future achievement of the financial targets as set forth in the Make Good Agreement dated March 12, 2008. The purpose of the arrangement between Mr. Yamamoto and Mr. Gao Zhentao was to transfer Mr. Yamamoto’s shares to Mr. Gao Zhentao in exchange for the services that Mr. Gao Zhentao has rendered, which resulted in the strong performance of the Company in the years 2008 and 2009. The general, verbal and informal understanding, together with the Company’s corporate restructuring in 2007, may be deemed to have been an acquisition of domestic companies by an offshore SPV controlled by a PRC resident depending on the interpretation and implementation by the relevant Chinese regulatory agencies. If so interpreted, the general, verbal and informal understanding, together with the Company’s corporate restructuring in 2007, may be considered to have been a failure to comply fully with the M&A Rules, as it could be deemed to be an Affiliated Acquisition without approval under the M&A Rules. In such case, the Chinese regulatory authorities could invalidate the Company’s corporate restructuring conducted in 2007, impose fines and sanctions on the Company’s operations in China, limit the Company’s operating privileges in China, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from any public offerings into China, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by the Company’s PRC subsidiaries to the Company or take other actions that could have a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. Failure to comply with the recent PRC foreign exchange regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents, mergers with and acquisitions of PRC domestic companies by foreign investors, and relevant approval and registration requirements may subject the Company’s PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability, limit the Company’s ability to inject capital into the Company’s PRC subsidiaries, limit the Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a public notice in October 2005, generally referred to as Circular 75, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over any offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies originally owned or controlled by such PRC residents. PRC residents who are shareholders of offshore SPVs and have completed such round-trip investments but did not carry out foreign exchange registrations for overseas investments before November 1, 2005 were retroactively required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. PRC resident shareholders are also required to amend their registrations with the local SAFE branch in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest. The Company has requested that its current shareholders and/or beneficial owners disclose whether they or their shareholders or beneficial owners fall within the ambit of the SAFE notice and urge those who are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under the SAFE notice. However, the Company cannot assure you that all of its shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with the Company’s request to make, obtain or update any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by the SAFE notice or other related rules. In case of any non-compliance by any of the Company’s PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners, the Company’s PRC subsidiaries and such shareholders and beneficial owners may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions, including restrictions on the Company’s ability to contribute additional capital to its PRC subsidiaries and its PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to its offshore holding companies, which would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. -21- The Company’s construction projects may be challenged by the relevant government agencies. The Company has not obtained relevant government approvals and permits, including the planning permit, construction permit and the environmental permit, with respect to two of its projects involving the construction of breeder farm and feed stock production. The constructions of these two projects may be challenged by relevant governmental authorities and the Company’s business operations may be interrupted or suspended. Further approvals are required for the land that the Company leases from village committees. The Company has entered into several land lease agreements respectively with certain local village committees in Weifang city for use of certain land owned by such villages. According to relevant PRC law, prior to entering into the lease agreements with the Company, the village committees must obtain the consent of at least two-thirds of the members of the respective village as well as the approval of the relevant people’s government. However, these village committees have not completed the required consent and approval procedures. Although the Company has not received any notice from any governmental authorities challenging the validity of these lease agreements, the Company cannot assure you that its use of the leased land will not be challenged in the future, which may adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may have to make up the unpaid social insurance and housing funds for its employees. The Company has made the required pension payments for its employees who have employment contracts with PRC Yuhe or Taihong. However, the Company has been delinquent in certain social insurance and employee housing fund payments to its employees in an amount of approximately $440,854 as of December 31, 2009 and $587,808 as of December 31, 2010. The Company has accordingly made accruals of $370,387 and $499,290 for employee social insurance and $70,467 and $88,518 for employee housing fund for 2009 and 2010, respectively. The Company may be required to make up the unpaid compulsory social insurance and housing fund payments, and the Company may also be subject to administrative penalties with respect to these amounts, as may be determined by the government authorities. If the Company is required to pay such amounts, its business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK The Company’s quarterly results may be volatile. The Company’s operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during its operating history and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. Many factors could cause the Company’s revenues and operating results to vary significantly in the future, including factors that are outside of the Company’s control. Accordingly, the Company believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful. Investors should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of the Company’s future performance. If the Company’s results of operations in any quarter do not meet analysts’ expectations, the Company’s stock price may materially decrease. Past incomplete disclosures may cause certain investors to rescind their past investment in us. The Company filed a Form 10-K/A (Amendment No. 1) on October 15, 2010 to amend its previous SEC filings to supplement certain disclosures with respect to a general, verbal and informal understanding between Mr. Gao Zhentao and Mr. Kunio Yamamoto at the time of a share transfer agreement dated October 18, 2007. Pursuant to such understanding, all or part of the shares of the Company’s common stock issued to Mr. Kunio Yamamoto would be transferred to Mr. Gao Zhentao in the future in consideration of Mr. Gao Zhentao’s commitment to management of the Company’s business operations and future achievement of the financial targets set forth in a Make Good Agreement on March 12, 2008. The general, verbal and informal understanding may result in invalidation of the Company’s corporate restructuring in 2007 as described in the risk factor entitled “Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies and corporate restructuring by PRC residents may have adverse effects on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial conditions.” Such past incomplete disclosure may cause investors who purchased the Company’s shares pursuant to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on May 12, 2008, as amended, to rescind their purchase of the Company’s shares based on the Registration Statement on Form S-1, in which case the Company’s may be required to purchase from such investors their shares at their initial purchase price. This may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. -22- The Company may issue additional shares of its capital stock to raise capital or complete acquisitions, which would reduce the equity interest of the Company’s stockholders. The Company’s articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share. The Company completed a shelf registration on Form S-3 (File No. 333-167246), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 2, 2010, and became effective June 23, 2010. Under the shelf registration statement, the Company may, from time to time, sell up to $40,000,000 in aggregate of common stock. On November 2, 2010, the Company completed a public offering from the shelf registration of 4,140,000 shares of common stock at a price of $7.00 per share, after the underwriters have exercised the over-allotment option in connection with the public offering. As of March 1, 2011, there were approximately 479,750,437 authorized and unissued shares of the Company’s common stock that have not been reserved and are available for future issuance. The Company has no commitments as of December 31, 2010 to issue any of the Company’s securities in connection with an acquisition. However, the Company may issue a substantial number of additional shares of the Company’s common stock in the future to complete a business combination or to raise capital. The issuance of additional shares of the Company’s common stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of the Company’s existing stockholders; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Company’s common stock. The Company has not paid dividends in the past and does not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of the Company’s common stock. Other than the dividend of $3.088 per share that the Company paid to its shareholders in November 2007 as required by a stock purchase agreement between the Company and Halter Financial Investments, L.P., the Company has not declared dividends or paid cash dividends on the Company’s common stock and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on the Company’s common stock will depend on its earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting the Company at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If the Company does not pay dividends, the Company’s common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur when the Company’s stock price appreciates. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to its stockholders. China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require the Company to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although the Company’s management believes that it will be in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change, the Company may not be able to pay dividends to its stockholders outside of China. In addition, under current Chinese law, the Company must retain a reserve equal to 10% of net income after taxes, not to exceed 50% of registered capital. Accordingly, this reserve will not be available to be distributed as dividends to the Company’s stockholders. The Company presently does not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. The Company’s board of directors intends to follow a policy of retaining all of its earnings to finance the development and execution of its strategy and the expansion of its business. The Company’s management may have broad discretion as to the use of the net proceeds from any offering of its common stock and may allocate the net proceeds of an offering in ways that you or other stockholders may not approve. The Company has not determined the specific uses of the proceeds of any offering of its common stock or the amounts or timing of these expenditures. Failure by the Company’s management to apply these funds effectively may adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain and expand its business. In the event that management does not apply these funds effectively, your investment in the Company’s common stock may not result in a favorable return. One stockholder controls approximately 35.7% of the voting power of the Company’s common stock and, as a result, he may exercise voting control and be able to take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Mr. Gao Zhentao beneficially controlled approximately 35.7% of the voting power of the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock as of March 30, 2011. This concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common stock because investors often perceive a disadvantage in owning shares in a company with one significant stockholder. Mr. Gao Zhentao has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving the Company, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control. -23- The Company’s common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. The Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Although an active trading market has developed for the Company’s common stock, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for the Company’s common stock will be sustained. Failure to maintain an active trading market for the Company’s common stock may adversely affect its stockholders’ ability to sell the Company’s common stock in short time periods, or at all. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market could harm the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s common stock has experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 