ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY VARIOUS RISKS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE PRINCIPAL RISKS NOTED BELOW. RISKS CONCERNING OUR BUSINESS WE CURRENTLY DEPEND ON ONE KEY CUSTOMER FOR ALL OUR REVENUE, AND THE LOSS OF, OR A SIGNIFICANT SHORTFALL IN ORDERS FROM, THIS KEY CUSTOMER COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR REVENUE. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, 100% of our revenue was from Duke Energy. Our inability to generate additional anticipated revenue from our key customer, or a significant shortfall in sales will likely significantly reduce our revenue and adversely affect our business. Our operating results in the foreseeable future continue to depend on our ability to further our deployments with our existing customer. Our immediate business opportunities continue to be largely dependent on the success of our deployments, and the future decisions of Duke Energy relating to smart grid system architecture, and the Ambient fourth generation Node. We are focusing much of our time, attention and resources on the rollout of the equipment and software delivered to Duke Energy. The success of our endeavors with respect to the deployment is subject to several risks. We depend on third parties to deliver and support reliable components to manufacture and assemble our end products, as well as our engineering team to continue to advance our software products. If we are unable to effectively manage, maintain and grow our relationship with Duke Energy, our business could be materially and adversely affected in its ability to continue operations as currently conducted. Additionally, management is unable at this time to assess the effects, if any, that the proposed merger between Duke and Progress Energy, which merger was announced in January 2011 and is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, will have on the continuation and/or expansion of our deployment by the new combined company following the merger, No assurance can be provided that the post merger entity will continue with or expand the current deployments at Duke Energy. WE UTILIZE ONE SUPPLIER TO MANUFACTURE OUR NODES In both 2010 and 2009, we utilized one contract manufacturer to produce our Nodes. Should our relationship with the manufacturer deteriorate or terminate or should this supplier lose some or all of its access to the products or components that comprise all or part of the Nodes that we purchase from it performance would be adversely affected. Under such circumstances, we would be required to seek alternative sources of supply for these products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such products from alternative sources on the same terms. A failure to obtain such products on as favorable terms would have an adverse effect on our revenue and/or gross margin. SLOWER ECONOMIC GROWTH RATES IN THE US MAY MATERIALLY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The US and other economies are recovering from a global financial crisis and recession which began in 2008. Growth has resumed, but has been modest and at an unsteady rate. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the financial crisis and recession, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in the years leading up to the crisis, and more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. In addition, the OECD has encouraged countries with large federal budget deficits, such as the US, to initiate deficit reduction measures. Such measures, if they are undertaken too rapidly, could further undermine economic recovery and slow growth by reducing demand. A lower future economic growth rate could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, slower adoption of new technologies and increase price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows from operations and our profitability. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FUNDS WHEN NEEDED, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EXPAND EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEPLOYMENTS. Management believes that our currently available cash resources, as well as anticipated revenue from firm purchase orders will allow us to meet our operating requirements through fiscal 2011. However, it is conceivable that we may raise additional funds to expand existing commercial deployments, support strategic acquisitions and/ orjoint venture opportunities, and/or to satisfy any additional significant purchase order that it may receive. If and or when additional capital is required there are no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining additional required capital on reasonable terms and conditions. 13 OTHERS MAY CHALLENGE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION Although we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that our rights relating to Ambient’s Smart Grid® solution may be challenged and invalidated or circumvented. Further, effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer, or otherwise use aspects of processes and devices that we may regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary information is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technologies. In the event that our intellectual property protection is insufficient to protect our intellectual property rights, we could face increased competition in the market for technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OTHER COMPANIES MAY DEVELOP AND SELL COMPETING PRODUCTS WHICH MAY REDUCE THE SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS OR RENDER OUR PRODUCTS OBSOLETE. The smart grid communications marketplace is rapidly evolving and therefore has rapidly changing technological, regulatory and consumer requirements. We will need to continue to maintain and improve our competitive position to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers, and continue to develop and introduce new products, features and services in a timely and efficient manner. Some of our potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than our Company. These potential competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers and exert more influence on the sales channel than we do. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with these potential competitors, and these potential competitors may develop or market technologies and products that are more widely accepted than those we are developing or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE LOSSES IN THE FUTURE We are a company engaged in the design, development and marketing of our smart grid communication technology and solutions. We have incurred losses of $3,186,229 and $14,246,284 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 14 Our ability to generate and sustain significant additional revenues or achieve profitability will depend upon the factors discussed elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section. There are no assurances that we will sustain profitability, or that operating losses will not resume in the future. RISKS CONCERNING OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE VICIS CAPITAL MASTER FUND OWNS A MAJORITY OF AMBIENT’S ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK AND WILL THUS BE ABLE TO CONTROL THE OUTCOME OF ALL ISSUES SUBMITTED TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Vicis holds, as of February 22, 2011, approximately 84.2% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, Vicis is able to control the outcome of all issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all of our directors and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or a merger or a private transaction. A principal of Vicis also is a member of our board of directors. THE EFFECTS OF A POTENTIAL REVERSE STOCK SPLIT OF OUR COMMON STOCK ARE UNKNOWN. In February 2011, our majority stockholder approved a reverse split of Ambient’s stock, in the range of 1-for 30 to 1-for 100, which the Board of Directors may implement in its discretion (if at all) before December 31, 2011, without any further stockholder approval. In connection therewith, on February 16, 2011, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) a preliminary information statement on Schedule 14 C. The Board’s discretionary authority will become effective only after the filing with the SEC and mailing to Ambient's shareholders of record of the definitive Information Statement on Schedule 14 C. The Board approved and recommended the reverse stock split primarily in order to increase Ambient’s prospects of successfully listing its common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If the Board determines to effect a reverse stock split, we cannot assure you that it will be successful in achieving a listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (or any other exchange). Stockholders should also note that if our Board elects to implement a reverse stock split, there is no assurance that prices for shares of the Common Stock after the reverse split will increase proportionally to the exchange ratio of the reverse stock split (or at all). We cannot guarantee to stockholders that the price of our shares will reach or sustain any price level in the future, and it is possible the proposed reverse stock split will have no lasting impact on our share price. 15 FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK OR OTHER DILUTIVE EVENTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT PREVAILING MARKET PRICES FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. As of February 22, 2011, we were authorized to issue up to 2,000,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 1,648,376,354 shares were outstanding. As of February 22, 2011, an additional 292,931,931 shares of common stock were reserved for the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase common stock and the reservations of shares in the various stock option plans. Many of the above options and warrants contain provisions that require the issuance of increased numbers of shares of common stock in the event of stock splits, redemptions, mergers and other transactions. The occurrence of any such event or the exercise of any of these options or warrants would dilute the interest in our company represented by each share of common stock and may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority, without further action or vote of our stockholders, to issue authorized shares of our common stock that are not reserved for issuance. In addition, in order to raise the amount of capital that we may need at the current market price of our common stock, we may need to issue a significant number of shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exercisable for a significant number of shares of our common stock. Any of these issuances will dilute the percentage ownership interests of our current stockholders, which will have the effect of reducing their influence on matters on which our stockholders vote, and might dilute the book value and market value of our common stock. Our stockholders may incur additional dilution upon the exercise of currently outstanding or subsequently granted options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock will likely fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · Announcements by us of commencement of, changes to, or cancellation of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results by securities analysts or investors; · Variations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including but not limited to those identified in this "RISK FACTORS" section; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · Future sales of our common stock; · Stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our stock; · Commencement of or involvement in litigation; and/or · Announcements by us, or by our competitors of technological innovations or new products. In addition, the equity markets have experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities issued by high technology companies and that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results of those companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS ARE APPLICABLE TO INVESTMENT IN SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges, provided that current prices and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities are provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to penny stock rules. Many brokers will not deal with penny stocks, restricting the market for our shares of common stock. BECAUSE WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY ANY CASH DIVIDENDS ON OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK, OUR STOCKHOLDERS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE A RETURN ON THEIR SHARES UNLESS THEY SELL THEM. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 