Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks or other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely to actually occur, were to occur, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. This could cause the price of our stock to decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Past results are not a reliable indicator of future results, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with general market rates and rise and fall based on the asset liability committee’s view of our needs. However, we may pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, and the volume of loan originations in our mortgage banking business. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we are unable to completely eliminate this risk. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. We are experiencing strong competition from other banks and financial institutions for deposits. We may offer more competitive rates to our customers or find alternative funding sources to fund the growth in our loan portfolio. In 2007 and 2006, deposit growth was not sufficient to fund our loan growth. In 2007, we were able to utilize the $23.5 million from our stock offering in late 2006 to fund loan growth early in the year. In addition, as we did in 2006, we used Federal Home Loan Bank advances and principal and interest payments on available-for-sale securities to make up the difference. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our president and chief executive officer and other senior officers. We have entered into employment agreements with five of our executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business and possibly result 15 in reduced revenues and earnings. We do maintain bank-owned life insurance on key officers that would help cover some of the economic impact of a loss caused by death. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Many of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2007, approximately 83.9% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Risk of loan defaults and foreclosures are unavoidable in the banking industry, and we try to limit our exposure to this risk by monitoring our extensions of credit carefully. While the subprime loan problems of the financial industry did not have a direct impact on us, we are aware of the weakening effect it has had on the economy and on our customers. The current economy amplifies the reality that we cannot fully eliminate credit risk, and as a result credit losses may occur in the future. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $178.0 million in loans to borrowers in the commercial real estate industry, representing approximately 25.1% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. The real estate consists primarily of owner-operated properties, warehouses and other commercial properties. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. They are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and depend on cash flows from the owner’s business or the property to service the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial real estate loans have grown 7.9% since December 31, 2006. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. 16 We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. We operate in a mixed market environment with influences from both rural and urban areas. Because our lending operation is concentrated in the Eastern, Richmond and Tidewater areas of Virginia, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in these markets. Changes in the local economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Although we might not have significant credit exposure to all the businesses in our areas, the downturn in any of these businesses could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. While we believe we compete effectively with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller asset base, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we have to raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on loans to compete effectively, our net interest margin and income could be negatively affected. Failure to compete effectively to attract new, or to retain existing, clients may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of probable and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of probable and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. 17 Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Consistent with our loan loss reserve methodology, we expect to make additions to our loan loss reserve levels as a result of our loan growth, which may affect our short-term earnings. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. We may not be able to successfully manage our growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. During the last five years, we have experienced significant growth, and a key aspect of our business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: • open new branch offices or acquire existing branches or other financial institutions; • attract deposits to those locations; and • identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future. Our ability to manage our growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. As we continue to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or other banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, our plans for branch expansion could decrease our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute our branching strategy. We could sustain losses if our asset quality declines. Our earnings are significantly affected by our ability to properly originate, underwrite and service loans. We could sustain losses if we incorrectly assess the creditworthiness of our borrowers or fail to detect or respond to deterioration in asset quality in a timely manner. Problems with asset quality could cause our interest income and net interest margin to decrease and our provisions for loan losses to increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may face risks with respect to de novo banking opportunities and future acquisitions. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise by pursuing business development opportunities, and we have grown rapidly since we were formed. As part of that strategy, we have grown primarily through opening new branches. We also acquired three branches in 2003, have announced our intent to purchase two branches in first quarter 2008 and we may acquire other branches or financial institutions in the future, if a desirable opportunity presents itself. Growth through new branches or acquisitions involves a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating where we should open a new branch and who may be a favorable acquisition or merger partner; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to any growth opportunity may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; 18 • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and • the loss of key employees and clients. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any new branches or future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future merger or acquisition, our integration efforts will be successful or we, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of the banking regulations we are governed by are intended to protect depositors, the public or the insurance fund maintained by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation rather than our shareholders. Banking regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth, and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about applicable banking laws and regulations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the cost of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. As a result, we may experience greater compliance costs. We may identify a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting that may adversely affect our ability to properly account for non-routine transactions. As we have grown and expanded, we have acquired and added, and expect to continue to acquire and add, businesses and other activities that complement our core retail and commercial banking functions. Such acquisitions or additions frequently involve complex operational and financial reporting issues that can influence management’s internal control system. While we make every effort to thoroughly understand any new activity or acquired entity’s business processes, our planning for proper integration into our company can give no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our internal control over financial reporting. 19 If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at new branch locations, as well as investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our continued growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from our bank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of our bank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands, particularly if we continue to grow and experience increasing loan demand. We may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets should such sources not be adequate. Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent and rapid growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. In the future, we may be subject to various factors that may influence our performance such as the interest rate environment which can have drastic swings that impact our revenue stream and cost of funds, the state of the real estate market and the valuations associated with property that is collateral on loans, or the ability to find suitable expansion opportunities. Other factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to clients, we may assume that a customer’s audited financial statements conform with GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with GAAP or are materially misleading. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 