D. RISK FACTORS The following are certain factors that you should consider when evaluating our business, financial conditions and results of operations. However, these factors are not exclusive and you are urged to consider the statements made elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other publicly filed documents. If we do not successfully implement our proposed store expansion program, we will not be able to attain the financial and operational goals that we and the investment community expect. Our growth is partially dependent upon our ability to successfully expand our store base, particularly in the United States. This will embrace such factors as the identification of suitable markets and sites for new stores, negotiation of leases on acceptable terms, construction or renovation of sites, receipt of all necessary permits and governmental approvals therefor and, if necessary, the obtaining of additional financing for those sites. In addition, we must be able to hire, train and retain competent managers and personnel and manage the systems and operational components of our growth. There can be no assurance that we would be able to locate suitable store sites or enter into suitable lease agreements. In addition, we cannot assure you that, as we open new stores in existing markets, these new stores will not have an adverse effect on comparable store sales at existing stores in these markets. Failure to open new stores on a timely basis, obtain acceptance in markets in which we currently have limited or no presence, attract qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures, would adversely affect our future operating results. 6 Table of Contents As part of our growth strategy, we may also open stores in new markets where we will not initially benefit from knowledge of local market conditions, pre-existing retail brand name recognition or marketing, advertising, distribution and regional management efficiencies made possible by our store networks in existing markets. Expansion into new markets may present construction, operating, marketing, product ranging, climatic and competitive challenges that are different from those encountered in the past within our existing markets. Any store expansion program will attract an increase in store pre-opening costs and related capital expenditure. We cannot assure you that we will anticipate all the challenges and changing demands that our proposed store expansion program will impose on our management or operations and failure to adapt thereto, would adversely affect the implementation of our growth strategy. Weakening economic conditions may have an adverse affect on our business and results of operation. The success of our operations depends upon a number of factors related to consumer spending, including future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, business conditions, interest rates and taxation. If existing economic conditions were to deteriorate, consumer spending may decline, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. These adverse affects may be exacerbated by the significant current regional concentration in each state and territory of our business in Australia and the Pacific West, Southwestern and East coast U.S. markets. We face business, political and economic risk because we transact business outside of the United States. Our headquarters, non-U.S. stores, exports and limited wholesale and manufacturing operations are located in Australia. We transact a large proportion of our business in Australia and obtain the majority of our merchandise, parts and raw materials from China and other markets outside of the United States and Australia, such as Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and Italy. There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including: • tariffs; • customs duties and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability, expropriation, nationalization and other political risks; • foreign exchange controls, technology, export and import restrictions or prohibitions; • the difficulties of compliance with foreign laws and regulations; • compulsory resumption of a Barbeques Galore store by statutory authority in connection with an infrastructure project or otherwise; • delays from customs brokers or government agencies; • seasonal reductions in business activity; • subjection to multiple taxation regimes and potentially adverse tax consequences; • labor stoppages or strikes; • freight rates and shipping charges; • availability and cost of raw materials; • acts of terrorism; • port closures; • actual or intended warfare; and • medical issues such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”). Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents We rely on a few significant vendors and suppliers who may discontinue selling to us at any time. We purchase the majority of our merchandise and all of our raw materials from numerous vendors and suppliers and generally have no long-term purchase contracts with any vendor or supplier. During the twelve months ended January 31, 2005, approximately 58% of our merchandise purchases in such period were obtained from our ten largest vendors. We consider certain barbecue brands to be significant to our business, especially in the United States. No single vendor accounted for more than 5% of our merchandise purchases other than Grand Hall Enterprises Limited, Chant (Far East) Limited, Honfeld Limited, Dimension Industries Company Limited and the Weber group of companies which supplied us with approximately 13.73%, 12.68%, 7.60%, 6.66% and 5.87% respectively, of our merchandise purchases during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by a disruption in purchases from any of these key vendors or suppliers. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in Australian dollars but a substantial portion of our revenues, purchases and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and, to a lesser extent, other foreign currencies. Accordingly, we are subject to risks of currency exchange to the extent of currency fluctuations between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar or other currencies in which we transact our business. This currency imbalance has resulted in and may continue to result in, foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Our Australian operations generally economically hedge a major portion of their imports against exchange rate fluctuations with respect to the Australian dollar. In our U.S. operations, however, we have not and currently do not actively economically hedge against exchange rate fluctuations, as the vast majority of our U.S. operations’ purchases are transacted in U.S. dollars, although we may elect to do so in the future. Changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our net sales, cost of goods sold, gross profit and net (loss) income, any of which alone or in the aggregate may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Such currency issues could thus affect the market price for our ADSs. Pursuant to a decision by the Board of Directors to initiate a regular dividend policy, the above exchange rate fluctuations would affect the conversion into U.S. dollars (for payment to holders of ADSs) by the Depositary, if any cash dividends were paid in Australian dollars on the Ordinary Shares represented by the ADSs. Similarly, the above exchange rate fluctuations would also affect the conversion into Australian dollars (for payment to holders of ADSs) by the Depository, if any cash dividends were paid in U.S. dollars on the Ordinary Shares represented by the ADSs. See “Item 3. Key Information - A. Selected Financial Data - Exchange Rates” and “Item 9. The Offer and Listing - Price Range of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Stock Market® (“Nasdaq”)”. Intense competition in our market could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenues. The market for barbecues and our other product offerings is highly competitive in both the United States and Australia. Our retail operations compete against a wide variety of retailers, including mass merchandisers, discount or outlet stores, department stores, hardware stores, home improvement centers, specialty patio, fireplace or cooking stores, warehouse clubs, web sites and mail order companies. We compete for retail customers primarily based on our broad assortment of competitively priced, quality products (including proprietary and exclusive products), convenience, customer service and the attractive presentation of merchandise within our stores and on our web site. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do and, particularly in the United States, may have greater name recognition than us. Furthermore, the lack of significant barriers to entry into our segment of the retail industry may also result in new competition in the future. If we fail to compete effectively, we may be unable to increase our market share or our market share may decline, which could adversely affect our revenues. 8 Table of Contents Changing merchandise trends, consumer demands or product quality could adversely affect our sales. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. We believe we have benefited from a lifestyle trend towards consumers investing more in their backyards and spending more quality time in outdoor family gatherings and social activities. Any change in this trend could adversely affect consumer interest in our major product lines. Moreover, our products must appeal to a broad cross-section of consumers whose preferences (as to product features such as colors, styles, finishes and fuel types) cannot always be predicted with certainty and may change between sales seasons. If we misjudge either the market for our merchandise or our customers’ purchasing habits, we may experience a material decline in sales or be required to sell inventory at reduced margins. We could also suffer a loss of customer goodwill if our manufacturing sources or stores do not adhere to our quality control or service procedures or otherwise fail to ensure satisfactory quality of our products. These outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to maintain and upgrade core computer systems which operate and monitor all major aspects of our business could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We rely on certain management information systems to obtain daily sales information from our stores and to operate and monitor all major aspects of our business. Our Head Office Information Systems process all distribution, warehouse management, inventory control, purchasing, merchandising, financial and office automation applications. Each store has PC-based point-of-sale (“POS”) registers which manage all sales transactions and store based purchasing transactions. The store check-out registers are networked to an In-Store Processor (“ISP”) located in the back office of each store. At the end of each day’s processing, the data from each register is consolidated onto the ISP which has an attached modem and which is polled daily to upload the data to the head office system. We rely upon our management information systems in operating and monitoring all major aspects of our business, including sales, gross profits, warehousing, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, financial accounting and human resources. Any disruption in the operation of our management information systems, or our failure to continue to upgrade, integrate or expend capital on such systems as our business expands, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to hire, train and retain competent managers and personnel could have a material adverse affect on our business. The success of our operations depends on our ability to hire, train and retain competent managers and other personnel and to manage the systems and operational components of our growth. Failure to attract and retain qualified management and personnel or appropriately adjust operational systems and procedures, would adversely affect our future operating results. Our success depends on several of our directors, senior management and employees, and they may not remain with us in the future. Our success is partly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our directors, senior management and employees, particularly Sam Linz, Chairman of the Board, Robert Gavshon, Deputy Chairman of the Board, John Price, Head of Product Management and Development in Australia and Director, Sydney Selati, Director and Chairman of Barbeques Galore, Inc., our U.S. operating subsidiary, Michael Lindblad, Chief Executive Officer, responsible for all aspects of our U.S. retail operations, with all senior U.S. operating executives reporting directly to him and Michael Varley, Head of Product Management and Development in the United States. We do not have long-term employment contracts with any of our directors, senior management and employees. The loss of the services of these individuals or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to execute certain operational changes, our ability to implement our business strategies would be adversely affected. We have identified a number of areas in our operations in which improvement would have a significant impact on our business strategies. In addition, when we expand into new regions, we may need additional warehouse capacity. We may in the future, need to secure further distribution centers, expand our current warehouse facilities in the United States or utilize public warehousing space, in each case depending on availability and cost at such time. We cannot assure you as to whether or when we will be able to effect any expansion or replacement of distribution facilities, or any other necessary operational changes that may arise, or that we will not incur cost overruns or disruptions in our operations in connection therewith. Our failure to effect these and any other necessary operational changes on a timely basis would adversely affect our expense structure and, therefore, our business, financial condition and operating results. Our revenues fluctuate from period to period and are subject to various factors including seasonality and weather. Our business is subject to substantial seasonal variations which have caused and which we expect to continue to cause our quarterly results of operations to fluctuate significantly. Historically, we have realized a major portion of our net sales and a substantial portion of our net income for the year during summer months and holiday seasons when consumers are more likely to purchase barbecue products, outdoor furniture and other backyard products. In anticipation of our peak selling seasons (late spring and early summer), we substantially increase our inventory levels and hire a significant number of part-time and temporary employees. In non-peak periods, particularly in late winter in the United States and early fall in Australia, we regularly experience monthly losses. We believe this is the general pattern associated with our segment of the retail industry and expect that this pattern will continue in the future. Sales of any of our major product lines, however, (in particular home heaters and outdoor furniture), may vary widely in peak seasons depending on, among other things, prevailing weather patterns, local climate conditions, actions by competitors, shifts in timing of holidays and shifts in consumer tastes. Our results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings, releases of new products, delivery times of products from overseas manufacturers and changes in merchandise mix throughout the year. We have in the past experienced quarterly losses, particularly in our fiscal first quarter and expect to experience such losses in the future. Because of these fluctuations in operating results, our results of operations in any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we may achieve for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. If for any reason our sales or gross profits during peak seasons or periods were substantially below expectations, our quarterly and annual results would be adversely affected. We depend on third-party carriers to distribute our products. We distribute merchandise to our stores primarily from our distribution centers located at Auburn, New South Wales (“NSW”), a third party distribution center at Yennora, NSW, Ontario, California and Charlotte, North Carolina. In distributing our merchandise, we rely upon third-party sea carriers to ship our manufactured products from Australia and China, to the United States and from China to Australia, as well as third-party surface freight carriers to transport all our merchandise from our distribution centers and warehouses to our stores. Accordingly, we are subject to numerous risks associated with the distribution of our merchandise, including: • mechanical risks; • labor stoppages or strikes; • inclement weather; • import regulation; • changes in fuel prices; • medical issues such as SARS; and • port closures due to acts of actual or threatened terrorism. 10 Table of Contents In addition, we believe that, while our distribution facilities are sufficient to meet our current needs, we may need another distribution center or larger facilities in the United States or Australia to support the further growth and expansion of stores. If our third-party carriers fail to distribute our products or our distribution facilities cannot support our needs, our sales will suffer and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our products and the personal use thereof are subject to certain government regulations which could influence product liability claims and impact the manner in which we distribute our products. Many of our products use gas or wood and flame and, consequently, are subject to regulation by authorities in both the United States and Australia in order to protect consumers, property and the environment. For example, our products and their personal use are subject to regulations relating to, among other things, the use of fire in certain locations (particularly restrictions relating to the availability or frequency of use of wood heating in homes and barbecues in apartments), restrictions on the sale or use of products that enhance burning potential such as lighter fluid, restrictions on the use of gas in specified locations (particularly restrictions relating to the use of gas containers in confined spaces) and restrictions on the use of wood burning heaters. Such regulations have had, and can be expected to have, an increasing influence on product claims, manufacturing, quality standards, contents, packaging and heater usage. We cannot assure you that certain jurisdictions in which we operate will not impose additional restrictions on the sale or use of our products. Such restrictions may negatively impact our sales and cause our business to suffer. Failure of our franchisees and licensees to adhere to our standards could adversely affect customer loyalty and diminish our brand name and reputation. As of January 31, 2005, there were 48 licensed stores in Australia and seven franchised stores in the United States, all of which are operated under the “Barbeques Galore” name by independent licensees or franchisees to whom we sell proprietary and other store products, and provide support services. The licensees and franchisees operate such stores pursuant to agreements which typically permit licensees and franchisees to assign the agreements to their immediate family and provide the licensees and franchisees with exclusive geographical sales territories. A large part of our licensing agreements in Australia are terminable at will (absent fraud) by the licensees only, generally upon 90 days’ notice. We monitor our licensed and franchised stores to assure their conformity to our standards and image and require the licensees and franchisees to comply with Barbeques Galore’s merchandising and advertising guidelines. Serious or protracted failures by licensees or franchisees to adhere to our standards could adversely affect customer loyalty and diminish our brand name or reputation for quality products and services and could require us to devote significant management attention and resources to enforcing our rights under such agreements. Conversely, if we fail to provide adequate support services or otherwise breach our contractual obligations to any licensee or franchisee, such failure or breach could result in termination of, or litigation relating to, the relevant licensing or franchise agreement and the loss of fees and sales revenue. Product liability claims could materially adversely affect our customer relations and costs. Failure of a product could give rise to product liability claims if customers, employees or third parties are injured or any of their property is damaged while using one or more of our products. Such injury could be caused, for example, by a gas valve malfunction, gas leak or an unanticipated flame-up resulting in injury to persons and/or property. In the event of such an occurrence, we could incur substantial litigation expense, receive adverse publicity, suffer a loss of sales or all or any of the foregoing. Even if such circumstances were beyond our control, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Although we maintain liability insurance in both Australia and the United States, we cannot assure you that such insurance will provide sufficient coverage in any particular case. 11 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are subject to government regulations. Our limited barbecue and home heater manufacturing operations are subject to regulations governing product safety and quality, the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment, water usage, workplace safety and labor relations. Our distribution facilities are also subject to workplace safety and labor relations regulations. As a barbecue and barbecue accessories store, we sell lighter fluid, lighters, matches and similar products which may be considered flammable when in contact with open flame or activated. Our sale of certain products may result in technical violations of certain of our leases which prohibit the sale of flammable materials in or on the leased premises. Over our operating history, we have made our landlords aware that we sell these products. To-date, no landlord has terminated or threatened termination of any lease due to these sales. Violations of these regulations and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. One of our former insurance providers has been placed into liquidation and the impact of this on our insurance coverage is unclear. We placed a major portion of our insurance policies with HIH Casualty and General Insurance Limited (“HIH”) during the twelve months ended June 30, 2001 and earlier periods. HIH Insurance Limited and 17 of its subsidiaries (“HIH Group”) was placed into liquidation on August 27, 2001. We have replaced these insurance policies with other insurers and currently have one claim of A$265,000, excluding legal costs, against us on foot in relation to the period during which we were covered by HIH. Although this claim was the subject of a successful court appeal by the Company, the opposing party has recently been granted leave to make a further appeal to the High Court of Australia. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge and belief, we are unaware of any further material claims which may arise against us in relation to any events during the period we were covered by HIH. It is also unknown at this stage when and what amounts, if any, would be recoverable from the Liquidators of the HIH Group, were such claims to arise. 