Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves significant risks inherent to the Company’s business. Like other bank holding companies, we are subject to a number of risks, many of which are outside of our control. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Other risks of which we are not aware, including those which relate to the banking and financial services industry in general and us in particular, or those which we do not currently believe are material, may harm our future business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Readers should consider carefully the following important risks, in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Difficult conditions in the economy and the capital markets continue to adversely affect our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, followed by unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and consumer loans and have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs spread to other securities and loans and have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. In this environment, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, and reduction 20 Table of Contents of business activity generally. Continuing economic pressure on consumers may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption in recent years. In some cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If these levels of market disruption and volatility recur, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by both residential and commercial real estate and a further downturn in either or both real estate markets, for any reason, may increase the Company’s credit losses, which would negatively affect its financial results. The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Most of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in its market area. At December 31, 2011, approximately 88.2% of the Company’s $734.5 million loan portfolio was secured by residential and commercial real estate. Changes in the real estate market, such as a greater deterioration in market value of collateral, or a greater decline in local employment rates or economic conditions, could adversely affect the Company’s customers ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact the Company’s profitability. There has been a slowdown in the housing market across our geographical footprint, reflecting declining prices and excess inventories of houses to be sold. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flow of the borrower, which may be unpredictable in the current economy. If the value of real estate serving as collateral for the loan portfolio materially declines, a significant portion of the loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are secured by real estate become troubled when real estate market conditions are declining or have declined, in the event of foreclosure the Company may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that was anticipated at the time of originating the loan. In that event, the Company may have to increase the provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. We have a concentration of credit exposure in acquisition and development (“ADC”) real estate loans. At December 31, 2011, we have approximately $63.4 million in loans for the acquisition and development of real estate and for construction of improvements to real estate, representing approximately 8.6% of our total loans outstanding as of that date. These loans are to developers, builders and individuals. Project types financed include acquisition and development of residential subdivisions and commercial developments, builder lines for 1-4 family home construction and loans to individuals for primary and secondary residence construction. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans. Completion of development projects and sale of developed properties may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and further downturn in the local economy or in occupancy rates in the local economy where the property is located could increase the likelihood of default. Because our loan portfolio contains acquisition and development loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in our percentage of non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Deterioration in the soundness of our counterparties could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could create another market-wide liquidity crisis similar to that experienced in late 2008 and early 2009 and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. There is no assurance that the failure of our counterparties would not materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. We target our commercial development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact this major economic sector in the markets in which we operate, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. We operate in a mixed market environment with influences from both rural and urban areas. Because our lending operation is concentrated in the Northern Neck, Middle Peninsula, Capital and Southern Regions of Virginia, we will be affected by the general economic conditions in these markets. Changes in the local economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio, and loan and deposit pricing. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would impact these local economic conditions and the demand for banking products and services generally, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. Although we might not have significant credit exposure to all the businesses in our areas, the downturn in any of these businesses could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Making loans is an essential element of our business. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: the duration of the credit; credit risks of a particular customer; changes in economic and industry conditions; and, in the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Although we seek to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, our loans may not be repaid. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses is determined by analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, current economic conditions that may affect a borrower’s ability to repay and the value of collateral, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in our estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. Because any estimate of loan losses is necessarily subjective and the accuracy of any estimate depends on the outcome of future events, we face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income. Although we believe our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or that our allowance will be adequate in the future. The Company is not paying dividends on its common stock and is deferring distributions on its preferred stock, and is otherwise restricted from paying cash dividends on its common stock. The failure to resume paying dividends and distributions may adversely affect the Company and may provide board appointment rights to the holders of our preferred stock. The Company has historically paid quarterly dividends before suspending dividend payments on its common stock in the first quarter of 2011. There is no assurance that the Company will resume paying cash common dividends. Even if the Company resumes paying common dividends, future payment of cash dividends on our common stock, if any, will be subject to the prior payment of all unpaid dividends and deferred distributions on the Company’s preferred stock currently held by the Treasury. All dividends are declared and paid at the discretion of our Board of Directors and are dependent upon our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Effective February 17, 2011, the Company and Bank entered into a Written Agreement with the Reserve Bank and the Bureau. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, both the Company and the Bank have agreed, among other things, to refrain from declaring or paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. 22 Table of Contents Further, on February 15, 2012, the Company deferred its fifth consecutive dividend on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury. Deferral of dividends on the preferred stock does not constitute an event of default. Dividends on the preferred stock are, however, cumulative, and the Company has accumulated the dividends in accordance with the terms of the preferred stock and U.S. GAAP and reflected as a portion of the effective dividend on preferred stock on the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had accumulated $1.2 million for dividends on the preferred stock. In addition, if dividends on the preferred stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors on the Company’s board will automatically increase by two. In such a case, the Treasury (or the then current holders of the preferred stock) will have the right, voting as a class, to elect two directors to the Company’s board at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for that purpose) and at every subsequent annual meeting until all owed and unpaid dividends on the preferred stock have been paid. Compliance with laws, regulations and supervisory guidance, both new and existing, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous laws, regulations and supervision from both federal and state agencies. During the past few years, there has been an increase in legislation related to and regulation of the financial services industry. We expect this increased level of oversight to continue. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural and operational penalties, including receivership. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these laws and regulations may increase our costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. Laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, generally are intended to benefit consumers, borrowers and depositors, not stockholders. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, and capital levels. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs, place restrictions on certain products and services, and limit our future capital raising strategies. A wide range of regulatory initiatives directed at the financial services industry have been proposed in recent years. One of those initiatives, the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and mandates significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact all financial institutions, including the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, by increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The federal regulatory agencies, and particularly bank regulatory agencies, are given significant discretion in drafting the Dodd-Frank Act’s implementing rules and regulations and, consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will depend on the final implementing rules and regulations. Accordingly, it remains too early to fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and subsequent regulatory rulemaking processes on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes, the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new financial consumer protection agency that could impose new regulations on us and include its examiners in our routine regulatory examinations conducted by the FDIC, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict the financial products and services we can offer to our customers. This agency, named the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibitions against unfair, deceptive and abusive business practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including the Company. This agency’s broad rulemaking authority includes identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive in connection with any consumer financial transaction or consumer financial product or service. Although the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has jurisdiction over banks with $10 billion or greater in assets, rules, regulations and policies issued by the Bureau may also apply to the Company or its subsidiaries by virtue of the adoption of such policies and best practices by the Federal Reserve and FDIC. The costs and limitations related to this additional regulatory agency and the limitations and restrictions that will be placed upon the Company with respect to its consumer product and service offerings have yet to be determined. However, these costs, limitations and restrictions may produce significant, material effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory supervision and examination of bank holding companies and their banking and non-banking subsidiaries, which could increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and restrict our ability to generate revenues from non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies, which could limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate hedging transactions. The Company may incur losses if it is unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. The Company’s profitability depends in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. These rates are normally in line with general market rates and rise and fall based on the asset liability committee’s view of our financing and liquidity needs. The Company may selectively pay above-market rates to attract deposits as it has done in some of the Company’s marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect the Company’s operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, which, in turn, may affect the growth in loan and retail deposit volume. The Company attempts to minimize the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, but cannot eliminate it. The Company’s net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest it pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. The Company’s net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside its control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s loans. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets or a decrease in loan originations, either of which could have a material and negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. While we believe we compete effectively with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller asset base, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. If we have to raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on loans to compete effectively, our net interest margin and income could be negatively affected. Failure to compete effectively to attract new or to retain existing, clients may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase interest expense. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, the prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011 financial institutions may offer interest on demand deposits. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. If we offer interest on demand deposit accounts to attract new customers or retain existing customers, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company and Bank have entered into the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions, which requires us to dedicate a significant amount of resources to complying with the agreement and may have a material adverse effect on our operations and the value of our securities. Effective February 17, 2011, the Company and Bank entered into a Written Agreement with the Reserve Bank and the Bureau. 24 Table of Contents The Written Agreement requires the Company and the Bank to address significant aspects of their business operations, including submitting plans to the Reserve Bank and the Bureau to strengthen board oversight, credit risk management practices, lending and credit administration, and loan grading and allowance for loan losses methodologies. In order to appropriately address the topics referenced in and comply with the Written Agreement, as well as to maximize the improvements to our operations, the Company will dedicate a significant amount of resources to tasks related to the Written Agreement. These resources may not be available for use in other aspects of our business, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations. For a full description of the Written Agreement, please see “Regulation and Supervision–Written Agreement” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, both the Company and the Bank have agreed to submit capital plans to maintain sufficient capital at the Company, on a consolidated basis, and the Bank, on a stand-alone basis, and to refrain from declaring or paying dividends without prior regulatory approval. The Company has agreed that it will not take any other form of payment representing a reduction in the Bank’s capital or make any distributions of interest, principal, or other sums on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without prior regulatory approval. The Company may not incur, increase or guarantee any debt without prior regulatory approval and has agreed not to purchase or redeem any shares of its stock without prior regulatory approval. This description of the Written Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the Written Agreement filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed February 17, 2011. If the Company and Bank do not comply with the Written Agreement, we could be subject to the assessment of civil money penalties, further regulatory sanctions, or other regulatory enforcement actions. The Company is subject to restrictions and obligations as a participant in the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program. In January 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program, we issued and sold to the Treasury Series A Preferred Stock and a Warrant for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $24.0 million. Participation in the Capital Purchase Program subjects us to specific restrictions under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program, including limits on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock, limitations on executive compensation, and increased oversight by the Treasury, regulators and Congress under the EESA. Many recipients under the Capital Purchase Program have repaid the Treasury and are no longer subject to the restrictions imposed under the Capital Purchase Program. Withdrawing from the Capital Purchase Program requires approval of banking regulators and we may not be able to obtain such approval, or a condition of obtaining such approval may require us to raise additional capital. Unanticipated consequences of participation in the Capital Purchase Program could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, access to funding and the trading price of our common stock. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of any of those personnel could adversely affect our operations; we depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. We expect our future growth to be driven in a large part by the relationships maintained with our customers by our president and chief executive officer and other senior officers. We have entered into employment agreements with the majority of our executive officers. The existence of such agreements, however, does not necessarily assure that we will be able to continue to retain their services. The unexpected loss of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect on our business and possibly result in reduced revenues and earnings. We do maintain bank-owned life insurance on key officers that would help cover some of the economic impact of a loss caused by death. The implementation of our business strategy will also require us to continue to attract, hire, motivate and retain skilled personnel to develop new customer relationships as well as new financial products and services. Many experienced banking professionals employed by our competitors are covered by agreements not to compete or solicit their existing customers if they were to leave their current employment. These agreements make the recruitment of these professionals more difficult. The market for these people is competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, hiring, motivating or retaining them. 25 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully manage our long-term growth, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A key aspect of our long-term business strategy is our continued growth and expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to: • open new branch offices or acquire existing branches or other financial institutions; • attract deposits to those locations; and • identify attractive loan and investment opportunities. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities to expand in the future, or if we are subject to regulatory restrictions on growth or expansion of our operations. Our ability to manage our growth successfully also will depend on whether we can maintain capital levels adequate to support our growth, maintain cost controls and asset quality and successfully integrate any businesses we acquire into our organization. As we identify opportunities to implement our growth strategy by opening new branches or acquiring branches or other banks, we may incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of new branches, we must absorb those higher expenses while we begin to generate new deposits, and there is a further time lag involved in redeploying new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, any plans for branch expansion could decrease our earnings in the short run, even if we efficiently execute our branching strategy. Our deposit insurance premiums could increase in the future, which may adversely affect our future financial performance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a certain level. Economic conditions since 2008 have increased the rate of bank failures and expectations for further bank failures, requiring the FDIC to make payments for insured deposits from the DIF and prepare for future payments from the DIF. During 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on all institutions which it regulates, including the Bank. This special assessment was imposed due to the need to replenish the DIF, as a result of increased bank failures and expected future bank failures. In addition, the FDIC required regulated institutions to prepay their fourth quarter 2009, and full year 2010, 2011 and 2012 assessments in December 2009. Any similar, additional measures taken by the FDIC to maintain or replenish the DIF may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On April 1, 2011, final rules to implement changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to the FDIC assessment rules became effective. The rules provide that a depository institution’s deposit insurance assessment will be calculated based on the institution’s total assets less tangible equity, rather than the previous base of total deposits. These changes have not materially increased the Company’s FDIC insurance assessments for comparable asset and deposit levels. However, if the Bank’s asset size increases or the FDIC takes other actions to replenish the DIF, the Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums could increase. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. The Company believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or omission. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individual acts, by collusion by two or more people and/or by override of the established controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the Company’s control systems and in human nature, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption in service or breach in security. 26 Table of Contents The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct the Company’s business. Any failure, interruption or breach of security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, transaction processing systems and various accounting and data management systems. While it has policies and procedures designed to prevent and/or limit the effect of any failure, interruption or security breach of the Company’s communication and information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or, if they do occur, they will be adequately addressed on a timely basis. The occurrence of failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s communication and information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s operations rely on certain external vendors. The Company is reliant upon certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain day-to-day operations of the Company. Accordingly, the Company’s operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The Company maintains a system of comprehensive policies and a control framework designed to monitor vendor risks including, among other things, (i) changes in the vendor’s organizational structure, (ii) changes in the vendor’s financial condition, (iii) changes in the vendor’s support for existing products and services and (iv) changes in the vendor’s strategic focus. While the Company believes these policies and procedures help to mitigate risk, the failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements could be disruptive to the Company’s operations, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards and management’s selection of accounting methods, including assumptions and estimates, could materially impact our financial statements. From time to time the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. In addition, management is required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If the assumptions or estimates are incorrect, the Company may experience unexpected material consequences. 27 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available to us. As a result of losses in 2009 and 2010, we may need to raise additional capital in the future if we incur additional losses or due to regulatory mandates. The ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, additional capital may not be raised, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to maintain our capital ratios could be materially impaired, and we could face additional regulatory challenges. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary sources of funds of the Bank are client deposits and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability. Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, regulatory capital requirements, returns available to clients on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, sales of securities and loans, and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, as well as out-of-market time deposits. While we believe that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity demands. Lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions may decrease our level of deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC insured accounts. This may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the Treasury. These consumer preferences may force us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. We have goodwill that may become impaired, and thus result in a charge against earnings. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of December 31, 2011, we had $16.0 million of goodwill related to branch acquisitions in 2003 and 2008. To date, we have not recorded any impairment charges on our goodwill, however there is no guarantee that we may not be forced to recognize impairment charges in the future as operating and economic conditions change. A substantial decline in the value of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta common stock may result in an other-than temporary impairment charge. We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or FHLB, which enables us to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank advance program. As a FHLB member, we are required to own FHLB common stock, the amount of which increases with the level of our FHLB borrowings. The carrying value of our FHLB common stock was $7.4 million as of December 31, 2011. The FHLB has suspended daily repurchases of FHLB common stock, which adversely affects the liquidity of these shares. If the financial condition of FHLB deteriorates, there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future. Other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) could reduce our earnings. We may be required to record other-than-temporary impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for certain investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse 28 Table of Contents actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our securities portfolio in future periods. An other-than-temporary impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be parties to certain legal proceedings that may impact our earnings. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial impact or cause significant reputational risk to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Our common stock trading volume may not provide adequate liquidity for investors. Although shares of the Company’s common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in the common stock is less than that of many other financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of a sufficient number of willing buyers and sellers of the common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the daily average trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the common stock in a brief period of time, or the expectation of these sales, could cause a decline in the price of the Company’s common stock. Our common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in its value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report, and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 