Item 1A. Risk Factors The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. For more information regarding the forward-looking statements contained in this report, see the introductory paragraph to Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Amkor. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could affect our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents The matters relating to the Special Committee’s 2006 review of our historical stock option granting practices and the resultant restatement of our consolidated financial statements has resulted in expanded litigation and regulatory proceedings against us and may result in future litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In 2006, we established a Special Committee, consisting of independent members of the Board of Directors, to conduct a review of our historical stock option granting practices during the period from our initial public offering on May 1, 1998 through June 30, 2006. As previously disclosed, the Special Committee identified a number of occasions on which the measurement date used for financial accounting and reporting purposes for stock options granted to certain of our employees was different from the actual grant date. To correct these accounting errors, we amended our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2006, to restate our financial information from 1998 through March 31, 2006. The review of our historical stock option granting practices, related activities and the resulting restatements, required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and diverted our management’s attention from our business. Our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. As described in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the complaints in several of our existing litigation matters were subsequently amended to include allegations relating to stock option grants. In addition, the scope of the existing SEC investigation that began in August 2005 has been expanded to include an investigation into our historical stock option grant practices. We cannot assure you that this litigation, the SEC investigation or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the Special Committee as disclosed in the 2006 Annual Report. The conduct and resolution of these matters have been and may continue to be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Pending SEC Investigation — The Pending SEC Investigation Could Adversely Affect Our Business and the Trading Price of Our Securities. In August 2005, the SEC issued a formal order of investigation regarding certain activities with respect to Amkor securities. We previously announced that the primary focus of the investigation appears to be activities during the period from June 2003 to July 2004. We believe that the investigation in part relates to transactions in Amkor’s securities by certain individuals and that the investigation may in part relate to whether tipping with respect to trading in Amkor securities occurred. The matters at issue involve activities with respect to Amkor securities during the subject period by certain insiders or former insiders and persons or entities associated with them, including activities by or on behalf of certain current and former members of the Board of Directors and Amkor’s Chief Executive Officer. In October 2007, our former general counsel, whose employment with us terminated in March of 2005, was convicted of violating Federal securities laws for trading in Amkor securities on the basis of material non-public information. In April 2007, the SEC filed a civil action against our former general counsel based on substantially the same allegations as contained in the criminal case. In July 2006, the Board of Directors established a Special Committee to review Amkor’s historical stock option practices and informed the SEC of these efforts. The SEC informed us in 2006 that it expanded the scope of its investigation and has requested that Amkor provide documentation related to these matters. We have provided the requested documentation and cooperated fully with the SEC on the formal investigation and the informal inquiry that preceded it. We cannot predict the outcome of the investigation. In the event that the investigation leads to SEC action against any current or former officer or director of Amkor, or Amkor itself, our business or the trading price of our securities may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have the same impact regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Operating Results and Cash Flows — Our Operating Results and Cash Flows Have Varied and May Vary Significantly as a Result of Factors That We Cannot Control. Many factors could materially and adversely affect our net sales, gross profit, operating results and cash flows, or lead to significant variability of quarterly or annual operating results. Our profitability and ability to generate cash from operations is principally dependent upon demand for semiconductors, the utilization of our capacity, semiconductor package mix, the average selling price of our services and our ability to manage our capital expenditures in response to market conditions, control our costs including labor, material, overhead and financing costs. Our operating results and cash flows have varied significantly from period to period. Our net sales, gross margins, operating income and cash flows have historically fluctuated significantly as a result of many of the following factors, over which we have little or no control and which we expect to continue to impact our business: • fluctuation in demand for semiconductors and conditions in the semiconductor industry; • changes in our capacity utilization; • changes in average selling prices; • changes in the mix of semiconductor packages; • evolving package and test technology; • absence of backlog and the short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the impact of these factors on the timing and volume of orders relative to our production capacity; • changes in costs, availability and delivery times of raw materials and components; • changes in labor costs to perform our services; • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • changes in effective tax rates; • the availability and cost of financing; • intellectual property transactions and disputes; • high leverage and restrictive covenants; • warranty and product liability claims and the impact of quality excursions and customer disputes and returns; • costs associated with litigation judgments, indemnification claims and settlements; • international events, political instability, civil disturbances or environmental or natural events, such as earthquakes, that impact our operations; • difficulties integrating acquisitions; • our ability to attract and retain qualified employees to support our global operations and loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • delay, rescheduling and cancellation of large orders; and • fluctuations in our manufacturing yields. We have historically been unable to accurately predict the impact of these factors upon our results for a particular period. These factors may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, or lead to significant variability of quarterly or annual operating results. 16 Table of Contents Dependence on the Highly Cyclical Semiconductor and Electronic Products Industries — We Operate in Volatile Industries, and Industry Downturns Harm Our Performance. Our business is tied to market conditions in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical by nature. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns. Because our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for subcontracted packaging and test services, any downturn in the semiconductor industry or any other industry that uses a significant number of semiconductor devices, such as consumer electronic products, telecommunication devices, or computing devices could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If industry conditions deteriorate, we could suffer significant losses, as we have in the past, which could materially impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. High Fixed Costs — Due to Our High Percentage of Fixed Costs, We Will Be Unable to Maintain Our Gross Margin at Past Levels if We Are Unable to Achieve Relatively High Capacity Utilization Rates. Our operations are characterized by relatively high fixed costs. Our profitability depends in part not only on pricing levels for our products and services, but also on the utilization rates for our packaging and test equipment, commonly referred to as “capacity utilization rates.” In particular, increases or decreases in our capacity utilization rates can significantly affect gross margins since the unit cost of packaging and test services generally decreases as fixed costs are allocated over a larger number of units. In periods of low demand, we experience relatively low capacity utilization rates in our operations, which lead to reduced margins during that period. From time to time we have experienced lower than optimum utilization rates in our operations due to a decline in world-wide demand for our packaging and test services. This can lead to significantly reduced margins during that period. Although our capacity utilization rates at times have been strong, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain relatively high capacity utilization rates, and if we fail to do so, our gross margins may decrease. If our gross margins decrease, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our fixed operating costs have increased in part as a result of our efforts to expand our capacity through significant capital additions. In the event that forecasted customer demand for which we have made capital investments and, on a more limited basis, expect to make capital investments does not materialize, our sales may not adequately cover our substantial fixed costs resulting in reduced profit levels or causing significant losses, both of which may adversely impact our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, we could suffer significant losses if current industry conditions deteriorate, which could materially impact our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Guidance — Our Failure to Meet Our Guidance or Analyst Projections Could Adversely Impact the Trading Prices of Our Securities. We periodically provide guidance to investors with respect to certain financial information for future periods. Securities analysts also periodically publish their own projections with respect to our future operating results. As discussed above under “Fluctuations in Operating Results and Cash Flows — Our Operating Results and Cash Flows Have Varied and May Vary Significantly as a Result of Factors That We Cannot Control,” our operating results and cash flows vary significantly and are difficult to accurately predict. To the extent we fail to meet or exceed our own guidance or the analyst projections for any reason, the trading prices of our securities may be adversely impacted. Moreover, even if we do meet or exceed that guidance or those projections, the analysts and investors may not react favorably, and the trading prices of our securities may be adversely impacted. Declining Average Selling Prices — The Semiconductor Industry Places Downward Pressure on the Prices of Our Products. Prices for packaging and test services have generally declined over time. Historically, we have been able to partially offset the effect of price declines by successfully developing and marketing new packages with higher prices, such as advanced leadframe and laminate packages, by negotiating lower prices with our material vendors, recovering material cost increases from our customers, and by driving engineering and technological changes in our packaging and test processes which resulted in reduced manufacturing costs. We expect general downward pressure on average 17 Table of Contents selling prices for our packaging and test services in the future. If we are unable to offset a decline in average selling prices, including developing and marketing new packages with higher prices, reducing our purchasing costs, recovering more of our material cost increases from our customers and reducing our manufacturing costs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Decisions by Our IDM Customers to Curtail Outsourcing May Adversely Affect Our Business. Historically, we have been dependent on the trend in outsourcing of packaging and test services by integrated device manufacturers (“IDM”). Our IDM customers continually evaluate the outsourced services against their own in-house packaging and test services. As a result, at any time and for a variety of reasons, IDMs may decide to shift some or all of their outsourced packaging and test services to internally sourced capacity. The reasons IDMs may shift their internal capacity include: • their desire to realize higher utilization of their existing test and packaging capacity, especially during downturns in the semiconductor industry; • their unwillingness to disclose proprietary technology; • their possession of more advanced packaging and test technologies; and • the guaranteed availability of their own packaging and test capacity. Furthermore, to the extent we continue to limit capacity commitments for certain customers, these customers may begin to increase their level of in-house packaging and test capabilities, which could adversely impact our sales and profitability and make it more difficult for us to regain their business when we have available capacity. Any shift or a slowdown in this trend of outsourcing packaging and test services is likely to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In a downturn in the semiconductor industry, IDMs may be especially likely to respond by shifting some outsourced packaging and test services to internally serviced capacity on a short term basis. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows especially during a prolonged industry downturn. Our Substantial Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Prevent Us from Fulfilling Our Obligations. We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt balance was $1,764.1 million, of which $152.5 million was classified as a current liability. In addition, despite current debt levels, the terms of the indentures governing our indebtedness allow us or our subsidiaries to incur more debt, subject to certain limitations. If new debt is added to our consolidated debt level, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our substantial indebtedness could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including our obligations under our indentures to purchase notes tendered as a result of a change in control of Amkor; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our debt; • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to any of our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. 18 Table of Contents Ability to Fund Liquidity Needs. We operate in a capital intensive industry. Servicing our current and future customers requires that we incur significant operating expenses and continue to make significant capital expenditures, which are generally made in advance of the related revenues and without any firm customer commitments. During 2007, we had capital additions of $294 million and in 2008 we currently anticipate making capital additions in the range of approximately 11% to 14% of net sales. In addition, we have a significant level of debt, with $1,764.1 million outstanding at December 31, 2007, $152.5 million of which is current. The terms of such debt require significant scheduled principal payments in the coming years, including $152.5 million due in 2008, $54.8 million due in 2009, $54.8 million due in 2010, $482.7 million due in 2011, $43.0 million due in 2012 and $976.3 million due thereafter. The interest payments required on our debt are also substantial. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we paid $136.0 million of interest. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Additions and Contractual Obligations” for a summary of principal and interest payments. The source of funds to fund our operations, including making capital expenditures and servicing principal and interest obligations with respect to our debt, are cash flows from our operations, current cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under available debt facilities, or proceeds from any additional debt or equity financing. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $410.1 million and $99.8 million available under our senior secured revolving credit facility. We assess our liquidity based on our current expectations regarding sales, operating expenses, capital spending and debt service requirements. Based on this assessment, we believe that our cash flow from operating activities together with existing cash and cash equivalents and availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months, including retiring the remaining $88.2 million of our 9.25% Senior notes at maturity in February 2008. Thereafter, our liquidity will continue to be affected by, among other things, the performance of our business, our capital expenditure levels and our ability to repay debt out of our operating cash flow or refinance the debt with the proceeds of debt or equity offerings at or prior to maturity. If our performance or access to the capital markets differs materially from our expectations, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. If we fail to generate the necessary net income or operating cash flows to meet the funding needs of our business beyond the next twelve months due to a variety of factors, including the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, our liquidity would be adversely affected. Restrictive covenants in the indentures and agreements governing our current and future indebtedness could restrict our operating flexibility. The indentures and agreements governing our existing debt, and debt we may incur in the future, contain affirmative and negative covenants that materially limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends and repurchase stock, make certain investments and other payments, enter into certain mergers and consolidations, engage in sale leaseback transactions and encumber and dispose of assets. In addition, our future debt agreements may contain financial covenants and ratios. The breach of any of these covenants by us or the failure by us to meet any of these ratios or conditions could result in a default under any or all of such indebtedness. If a default occurs under any such indebtedness, all of the outstanding obligations there under could become immediately due and payable, which could result in a default under our other outstanding debt and could lead to an acceleration of obligations related to other outstanding debt. The existence of such a default or event of default could also preclude us from borrowing funds under our revolving credit facilities. Our ability to comply with the provisions of the indentures, credit facilities and other agreements governing our outstanding debt and indebtedness we may incur in the future can be affected by events beyond our control and a default under any debt instrument, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 Table of Contents We have significant severance plan obligations associated with our manufacturing operations in Korea which could reduce our cash flow and negatively impact our financial condition. We sponsor an accrued severance plan in our Korean subsidiary. Under the Korean plan, eligible employees are entitled to receive a lump sum payment upon termination of their employment based on their length of service, seniority and rate of pay at the time of termination. We paid $10.6 million and $14.5 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively under our severance plan. Our severance plan obligation is significant and in the event of a reduction in force or other termination of employment in our Korean facilities, payments under the plan could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reliable financial reports and to assist in the effective prevention of fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and auditors to assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that our management and external auditors will continue to conclude that our internal controls are effective. We face product return and liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Our packages are incorporated into a number of end products, and our business is exposed to product return and liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our packages fail. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity affecting our customers. Our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We also may suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our customers’ products. Further, if our packages are delivered with impurities or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, and our credibility and the market’s acceptance of our products could be harmed. Absence of Backlog — The Lack of Contractually Committed Customer Demand May Adversely Affect Our Sales. Our packaging and test business does not typically operate with any material backlog. Our quarterly net sales from packaging and test services are substantially dependent upon our customers’ demand in that quarter. None of our customers have committed to purchase any significant amount of packaging or test services or to provide us with binding forecasts of demand for packaging and test services for any future period, in any material amount. In addition, our customers often reduce, cancel or delay their purchases of packaging and test services for a variety of reasons including industry-wide, customer-specific and Amkor-related reasons. Because a large portion of our costs is fixed and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenues, we may not be able to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for any sales shortfall. If we are unable to do so, it would adversely affect our margins, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If customer demand does not materialize as anticipated, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Risks Associated With International Operations — We Depend on Our Factories and Operations in China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan. Many of Our Customers’ and Vendors’ Operations Are Also Located Outside of the U.S. We provide packaging and test services through our factories and other operations located in China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan. Although we do not derive any revenue from, nor sell any products in, North Korea, any future increase in tensions between South Korea and North Korea which may occur, for example, an outbreak of military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, many of our customers’ and vendors’ operations are located outside the U.S. The following are some of the risks inherent in doing business internationally: • regulatory limitations imposed by foreign governments, including limitations or taxes imposed on the payment of dividends and other payments by non-U.S. subsidiaries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • political, military, civil unrest and terrorist risks; • disruptions or delays in shipments caused by customs brokers or government agencies; • changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other restrictive trade barriers or policies; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws. Our Management Information Systems May Prove Inadequate — We Face Risks in Connection With Our Current Project to Install a New Enterprise Resource Planning System For Our Business. We depend on our management information systems for many aspects of our business. Some of our key software has been developed by our own programmers and this software may not be easily integrated with other software and systems. We are implementing a new enterprise resource planning system to replace many of our existing systems at significant locations. We face risks in connection with our current project to install a new enterprise resource system for our business. These risks include: • we may face delays in the design and implementation of that system; • the cost of the system may exceed our plans and expectations; and • such system may damage our ability to process transactions or harm our control environment. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, integrate or expand upon our systems, particularly in light of our intention to continue to implement a new enterprise resource planning system. Difficulties Expanding and Evolving Our Operational Capabilities — We Face Challenges as We Integrate New and Diverse Operations and Try to Attract Qualified Employees to Support Our Operations. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. For example, each business we have acquired had, at the time of acquisition, multiple systems for managing its own production, sales, inventory and other operations. Migrating these businesses to our systems typically is a slow, expensive process requiring us to divert significant amounts of resources from multiple aspects of our operations. This growth has strained our managerial, financial, plant operations and other resources. Future expansions may result in inefficiencies as we integrate new operations and manage geographically diverse operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our key senior management and technical personnel, any of whom may be difficult to replace. Competition for qualified employees is intense, and our business could be adversely affected by the loss of the services of any of our existing key personnel, including senior management, as a result of competition or for any other reason. We evaluate our management team and engage in long-term succession planning in order to ensure orderly replacement of key personnel. We do not have employment agreements with our key employees, including senior management or other contracts that would 21 Table of Contents prevent our key employees from working for our competitors in the event they cease working for us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts or in hiring and properly training sufficient numbers of qualified personnel and in effectively managing our growth. Our inability to attract, retain, motivate and train qualified new personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Dependence on Materials and Equipment Suppliers — Our Business May Suffer If The Cost, Quality or Supply of Materials or Equipment Changes Adversely. We obtain from various vendors the materials and equipment required for the packaging and test services performed by our factories. We source most of our materials, including critical materials such as leadframes, laminate substrates and gold wire, from a limited group of suppliers. Furthermore, we purchase the majority of our materials on a purchase order basis. From time to time, we enter into supply agreements, generally up to one year in duration, to guarantee supply to meet projected demand. Our business may be harmed if we cannot obtain materials and other supplies from our vendors in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities, in acceptable quality or at competitive prices. We purchase new packaging and test equipment to maintain and expand our operations. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. For example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to only partially satisfy our equipment orders in the normal time frame or to increase prices during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. The unavailability of equipment or failures to deliver equipment could delay implementation of our future expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. If we are unable to implement our future expansion plans or meet customer orders, we could lose potential and existing customers. Generally, we do not enter into binding, long-term equipment purchase agreements and we acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to substantial risks. For example, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could result in increased prices for equipment purchased by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are a large buyer of gold and other commodity materials including substrates and copper. The price of gold and other commodities used in our business fluctuate. Historically, we have been able to partially offset the effect of commodity price increases through price adjustments to some customers and changes in our product designs. Significant price increases may adversely impact our gross margin in future quarters to the extent we are unable to pass along past or future commodity price increases to our customers. Loss of Customers — The Loss of Certain Customers May Have a Significant Adverse Effect on the Operations and Financial Results. The loss of a large customer or disruption of our strategic partnerships or other commercial arrangements may result in a decline in our sales and profitability. Although we have over 300 customers, we have derived and expect to continue to derive a large portion of our revenues from a small group of customers during any particular period due in part to the concentration of market share in the semiconductor industry. Our ten largest customers together accounted for approximately 47.0%, 43.6% and 40.7% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. No customer accounts for more than 10% of our net sales. The demand for our services from each customer is directly dependent upon that customer’s level of business activity, which could vary significantly from year to year. The loss of a large customer may adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our key customers typically operate in the cyclical semiconductor business and, in the past, order levels have varied significantly from period to period based on a number of factors. Our business is likely to remain subject to this variability in order levels, and we cannot assure you that these key customers or any other customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in past periods. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or reduced orders by any one of them and our inability to replace these customers or make up for such orders could reduce our profitability. For example, our facility in Iwate, Japan, is primarily dedicated to a single customer, Toshiba Corporation. If we were to lose Toshiba as a customer or if it were to materially reduce its business with us, it could be difficult for us to find one or more new customers to utilize the capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, we have a 22 Table of Contents long term supply agreement and actively collaborate with IBM. If we were to lose IBM as a customer, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Capital Additions — We Believe We Need To Make Substantial Capital Additions, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business If Our Business Does Not Develop As We Expect. We believe that our business requires us to make significant capital additions in order to capitalize on what we believe is an overall trend to outsource packaging and test services. The amount of capital additions will depend on several factors, including the performance of our business, our assessment of future industry and customer demand, our capacity utilization levels and availability, our liquidity position and the availability of financing. Our ongoing capital addition requirements may strain our cash and short-term asset balances, and we expect that depreciation expense and factory operating expenses associated with our capital additions to increase production capacity will put downward pressure on our gross margin, at least over the near term. Furthermore, if we cannot generate or raise additional funds to pay for capital additions as well as research and development activities, our growth prospects and future profitability may be adversely affected. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by semiconductor companies; and • economic, political and other global conditions. The lead time needed to order, install and put into service various capital additions is often significant, and as a result we often need to commit to capital additions in advance of our receipt of firm orders or advance deposits based on our view of anticipated future demand with only very limited visibility. Although we seek to limit our exposure in this regard, in the past we have from time to time expended significant capital for additions for which the anticipated demand did not materialize for a variety of reasons, many of which were outside of our control. To the extent this occurs in the future, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Impairment Charges — Any Impairment Charges Required Under GAAP May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Net Income. Under GAAP, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition, goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required in the future to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our long-lived assets is determined. Such charges have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased Litigation Incident to Our Business — Our Business May Suffer as a Result of Our Involvement in Various Lawsuits. We are currently a party to various legal proceedings, including those described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. For example, we are engaged in an arbitration proceeding entitled Tessera, Inc. v. Amkor Technology, Inc. We were also named as a party in a purported securities class action suit entitled Nathan Weiss et al. v. Amkor Technology, Inc. et al. (and several similar cases which have now been consolidated). If an unfavorable ruling or outcome were to occur in arbitration or litigation, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. An unfavorable ruling or outcome could also have a negative impact on the trading price of our securities. We Could Suffer Adverse Tax and Other Financial Consequences if Taxing Authorities Do Not Agree with Our Interpretation of Applicable Tax Laws. Our corporate structure and operations are based, in part, on interpretations of various tax laws, including withholding tax, compliance with tax holiday requirements, application of changes in tax law to our operations and 23 Table of Contents other relevant laws of applicable taxing jurisdictions. From time to time, the taxing authorities of the relevant jurisdictions may conduct examinations of our income tax returns and other regulatory filings. We cannot assure you that the taxing authorities will agree with our interpretations. To the extent they do not agree, we may seek to enter into settlements with the taxing authorities which require significant payments or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We may also appeal the taxing authorities’ determinations to the appropriate governmental authorities, but we can not be sure we will prevail. If we do not prevail, we may have to make significant payments or otherwise record charges (or reduce tax assets) that adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) conducted examinations of our U.S. federal income tax returns in prior years which resulted in various adjustments, including reductions in our U.S. net operating loss carry-forwards. Future examinations by the taxing authorities in the U.S. or other jurisdictions may result in additional adverse tax consequences. Rapid Technological Change — Our Business Will Suffer If We Cannot Keep Up With Technological Advances in Our Industry. The complexity and breadth of semiconductor packaging and test services are rapidly increasing. As a result, we expect that we will need to offer more advanced package designs in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. Our success depends upon our ability to acquire, develop and implement new manufacturing processes and package design technologies and tools. The need to develop and maintain advanced packaging capabilities and equipment could require significant research and development and capital expenditures and acquisitions in future years. In addition, converting to new package designs or process methodologies could result in delays in producing new package types, which could adversely affect our ability to meet customer orders and adversely impact our business. Technological advances also typically lead to rapid and significant price erosion and may make our existing products less competitive or our existing inventories obsolete. If we cannot achieve advances in package design or obtain access to advanced package designs developed by others, our business could suffer. Packaging and Test — The Packaging and Test Process Is Complex and Our Production Yields and Customer Relationships May Suffer from Defects in the Services We Provide. Semiconductor packaging and test are complex processes that require significant technological and process expertise. The packaging process is complex and involves a number of precise steps. Defective packages primarily result from: • contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • changing processes to address environmental requirements; • defective raw materials; or • defective plating services. Testing is also complex and involves sophisticated equipment and software. Similar to most software programs, these software programs are complex and may contain programming errors or “bugs.” The testing equipment is also subject to malfunction. In addition, the testing process is subject to operator error. These and other factors have, from time to time, contributed to lower production yields. They may also do so in the future, particularly as we expand our capacity or change our processing steps. In addition, to be competitive we must continue to expand our offering of packages. Our production yields on new packages typically are significantly lower than our production yields on our more established packages. 24 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain high standards or acceptable production yields, if significant and prolonged, could result in loss of customers, increased costs of production, delays, substantial amounts of returned goods and claims by customers relating thereto. Any of these problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in line with industry practice, new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process that may take several months. If we fail to qualify packages with potential customers or customers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Competition — We Compete Against Established Competitors in the Packaging and Test Business as Well as Internal Customer Capabilities. The subcontracted semiconductor packaging and test market is very competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and test service providers primarily located in Asia, including companies with significant processing capacity, financial resources, research and development operations, marketing and other capabilities. These companies also have established relationships with many large semiconductor companies that are our current or potential customers. We also face competition from the internal capabilities and capacity of many of our current and potential IDM customers. In addition, we may in the future have to compete with a number of companies that may enter the market and with companies that may offer new or emerging technologies that compete with our products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against our existing or potential competitors or that our customers will not rely on internal sources for packaging and test services, or that our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will not be adversely affected by such increased competition. Environmental Regulations — Future Environmental Regulations Could Place Additional Burdens on Our Manufacturing Operations. The semiconductor packaging process uses chemicals, materials and gases and generates byproducts that are subject to extensive governmental regulations. For example, at our foreign facilities we produce liquid waste when semiconductor wafers are diced into chips with the aid of diamond saws, then cooled with running water. In addition, semiconductor packages have historically utilized metallic alloys containing lead (Pb) within the interconnect terminals typically referred to as leads, pins or balls. Federal, state and local regulations in the U.S., as well as international environmental regulations, impose various controls on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals used in our production processes and on the factories we occupy and are increasingly imposing restrictions on the materials contained in semiconductor products. Public attention has focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations and the risk to neighbors of chemical releases from such operations and to the materials contained in semiconductor products. For example, the European Union’s Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive (“RoHS”) imposes strict restrictions on the use of lead and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. RoHS became effective on July 1, 2006. In response to this directive, and similar laws and developing legislation in countries like China, Japan and Korea, we have implemented changes in a number of our manufacturing processes in an effort to achieve compliance across all of our package types. Complying with existing and future environmental regulations may impose upon us the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements, restrict our ability to expand our operations, disrupt our operations, subject us to liability or cause us to curtail our operations. Intellectual Property — We May Become Involved in Intellectual Property Litigation. We maintain an active program to protect our investment in technology by augmenting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products and services include patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. We have filed and obtained a number of patents in the U.S. and abroad the duration of which varies depending on the jurisdiction in which the patent is filed. While our patents are an important element of our intellectual property strategy and our success as a whole, we are not materially 25 Table of Contents dependent on any one patent or any one technology. The process of seeking patent protection takes a long time and is expensive. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from pending or future applications or that, if patents issue, the rights granted under the patents will provide us with meaningful protection or any commercial advantage. Any patents we do obtain may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and may not provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to us. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If any third party makes an enforceable infringement claim against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue the use of certain processes; • cease to provide the services at issue; • pay substantial damages; • develop non-infringing technologies; or • acquire licenses to the technology we had allegedly infringed. Some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. The confidentiality agreements on which we rely to protect these technologies may be breached and may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies. There can be no assurance that other countries in which we market our services will protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Our competitors may develop, patent or gain access to know-how and technology similar to our own. In addition, many of our patents are subject to cross licenses, several of which are with our competitors. We may need to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others through litigation, which could result in substantial cost and diversion of our resources. Furthermore, if we fail to obtain necessary licenses, our business could suffer. We are currently involved in three legal proceedings involving the acquisition of intellectual property rights, the enforcement of our existing intellectual property rights or the enforcement of the intellectual property rights of others. We refer you to the matters of Tessera, Inc. v. Amkor Technology, Inc., Amkor Technology, Inc. v. Motorola, Inc., and Amkor Technology, Inc. v. Carsem, et al., which are described in more detail in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. Unfavorable outcomes in one or more of these matters could result in significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The potential impact from the legal proceedings referred to in this report on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could change in the future. Fire, Flood or Other Calamity — With Our Operations Conducted in a Limited Number of Facilities, a Fire, Flood or Other Calamity at one of Our Facilities Could Adversely Affect Us. We conduct our packaging and test operations at a limited number of facilities. Significant damage or other impediments to any of these facilities, whether as a result of fire, weather, the outbreak of infectious diseases (such as SARs or flu), civil strife, industrial strikes, breakdowns of equipment, difficulties or delays in obtaining materials and equipment, natural disasters, terrorist incidents, industrial accidents or other causes could temporarily disrupt or even shut down our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of such a disruption or shutdown, we may be unable to reallocate production to other facilities in a timely or cost-effective manner (if at all) and may not have sufficient capacity to service customer demands in our other facilities. For example, our operations in Asia are vulnerable to regional typhoons that can bring with them destructive winds and torrential rains, which could in turn cause plant closures and transportation interruptions. In addition, some of the processes that we utilize in our operations place us at risk of fire and other damage. For example, highly flammable gases are used in the preparation of wafers holding semiconductor devices for flip chip packaging. While we maintain insurance policies for various types of property, casualty and other risks, we do not carry insurance for all the above referred risks and with regard to the insurance we do maintain, we cannot assure you that it would be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. 26 Table of Contents Continued Control By Existing Stockholders — Mr. James J. Kim and Members of His Family Can Substantially Control The Outcome of All Matters Requiring Stockholder Approval. As of December 31, 2007, Mr. James J. Kim, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, members of Mr. Kim’s immediate family and certain family trusts beneficially owned approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. This percentage includes beneficial ownership of the securities underlying our 6.25% convertible subordinated notes due 2013. Mr. James J. Kim’s family, acting together, have the ability to effectively determine matters (other than interested party transactions) submitted for approval by our stockholders by voting their shares, including the election of all of the members of our Board of Directors. There is also the potential, through the election of members of our Board of Directors, that Mr. Kim’s family could substantially influence matters decided upon by the Board of Directors. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business consolidation involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our shares, and could also negatively affect our stock’s market price or decrease any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 