Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report, including our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the adverse events described in this “Risk Factors” section or other sections of this report actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, the trading price, if any, of our securities could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business If we cannot successfully enforce our rights under the patents relating to two of our largest products, Skelaxin® and Avinza®, or if we are unable to secure or enforce our rights under other patents and trademarks and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property, additional competitors could enter the market, and sales of these products may decline materially. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, any generic pharmaceutical manufacturer may file an ANDA with a certification, known as a “Paragraph IV certification,” challenging the validity or infringement of a patent listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, which is known as the “FDA’s Orange Book,” four years after the pioneer company obtains approval of its NDA. As more fully described in Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(1), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules,” other companies have filed Paragraph IV certifications challenging the patents associated with some of our key products. If any of these Paragraph IV challenges succeeds, our affected product would face generic competition and its sales would likely decline materially. Should sales decline, we may have to write off a portion or all of the intangible assets associated with the affected product as we did with Altace® as described below. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary patent protection for other of our products or for products and technologies we develop or license. In addition, our competitors may develop products similar to ours, including generic products, using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property protection, which could materially reduce our sales. Although most of our revenue is generated by products not currently subject to competition from generic products, there is no proprietary protection for many of our branded pharmaceutical products, and generic substitutes for many of these products are sold by other pharmaceutical companies. Further, we also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in order to maintain our competitive position with respect to some products. Our sales could be materially reduced if our competitors independently develop equivalent proprietary technology and techniques or gain access to our trade secrets, know-how and technology. If we are unable to enforce our patents and trademarks or protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our supply agreements and purchase orders for raw materials contain minimum purchase commitments. If loss of market exclusivity or other factors cause sales of our products to fall below amounts necessary to use the raw materials we have committed to purchase, we may incur losses in connection with those supply agreements or purchase orders. In late 2007, the key patent associated with Altace® was invalidated by a federal court, and we expect net sales of Altace® to decrease significantly as a result. Our related restructuring initiative might not succeed, and, in any event, the benefits of the initiative will not be sufficient to offset the loss of revenues from decreased Altace® sales. In late 2007, following the Circuit Court’s decision invalidating our ‘722 Altace® patent, we undertook an analysis of its potential effects on future sales of Altace®. As a result of this analysis, we concluded that our 18 Table of Contents actual and estimated future net sales of Altace® are likely to decrease significantly because of competition from generic products. We therefore reduced our estimate of future net sales of Altace® and recorded charges associated with (1) minimum purchase requirements under our supply agreement to purchase Altace® raw material, (2) inventories associated with Altace® and (3) an impairment of our Altace® intangible assets. In addition, following the Circuit Court’s invalidation of our ‘722 patent relating to Altace®, we began a restructuring initiative designed to accelerate our planned strategic shift emphasizing our focus in neuroscience, hospital and acute care medicine. This initiative includes, based on an analysis of our strategic needs, a reduction in personnel, staff leverage, expense reductions and additional controls over spending, reorganization of sales teams and a realignment of research and development priorities. If we are unable to complete the objectives of this initiative, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of the restructuring initiative will not be sufficient to offset the loss of revenues from decreased product sales following the invalidation of our Altace® patent. We expect this loss of revenues to be material. The uncertainty and expense of the drug development process, actions by our competitors and other factors may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy to grow our business through increased sales, acquisitions, development and in-licensing, and, as a result, our business or competitive position in the pharmaceutical industry may suffer. Drug development is time-consuming and expensive. Only a small percentage of chemical compounds discovered by researchers prove to be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 10 to 15 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval. Clinical trials are conducted in a series of sequential phases, with each phase designed to address a specific research question. In Phase I clinical trials, researchers test a new drug or treatment in a small group of people to evaluate the drug’s safety, determine a safe dosage range, and identify side effects. In Phase II clinical trials, researchers give the drug or treatment to a larger population to assess effectiveness and to further evaluate safety. In Phase III clinical trials, researchers give the drug or treatment to an even larger population to confirm its effectiveness, monitor side effects, compare it to commonly used treatments, and collect information that will allow the drug or treatment to be used safely. The results of Phase III clinical trials are pivotal for purposes of obtaining FDA approval of a new product. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. Compounds or potential new products that appear promising in development can prove unsuccessful and fail to receive FDA approval, fail to receive approval of specific anticipated indications, be substantially delayed, or receive unfavorable product labeling (including indications or safety warnings), each of which can materially affect the commercial value of the product. Additional factors that may materially affect the success and/or timing of regulatory approval of a new product, and its commercial potential, include the regulatory filing strategies employed, the timing of and delays in FDA review, and the intervention by third parties in the approval process through administrative or judicial means. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will receive regulatory approval of our products in development, or of new dosage forms for existing products, that our products or dosage forms will receive approval for specific indications or that the labeling of these products will be as we would prefer. Our current strategy is to increase sales of certain of our existing products and to enhance our competitive standing through acquisitions or in-licensing of products, either in development or previously approved by the FDA, that complement our business and enable us to promote and sell new products through existing marketing and distribution channels. Moreover, since we engage in limited proprietary research activity with respect to the development of new chemical entities, we rely heavily on purchasing or licensing products in development and FDA-approved products from other companies. 19 Table of Contents Development projects, including those for which we have collaboration agreements with third parties, include the following: • Remoxytm, an investigational drug for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain that we are developing with Pain Therapeutics, Inc.; • Acuroxtm tablets, an investigational drug for the treatment of acute pain that we are developing with Acura Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; • CorVuetm (binodenoson) a myocardial pharmacologic stress imaging agent; • Vanquixtm, a diazepam-filled auto-injector; • Sonedenoson, formerly known as MRE0094, an investigational drug for the topical treatment of chronic diabetic foot ulcers; and • T-62, an investigational drug for the treatment of neuropathic pain. We compete with other pharmaceutical companies, including large pharmaceutical companies with financial, human and other resources substantially greater than ours, in the development and licensing of new products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • engage in product life-cycle management to develop new indications and line extensions for existing and acquired products, • successfully develop, license or commercialize new products on a timely basis or at all, • continue to develop products already in development in a cost effective manner, or • obtain any FDA approvals necessary to successfully implement the strategies described above. If we are not successful in the development or licensing of new products already in development, including obtaining any necessary FDA approvals, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, other companies may license or develop products or may acquire technologies for the development of products that are the same as or similar to the products we have in development or that we license. Because there is rapid technological change in the industry and because many other companies may have more financial resources than we do, other companies may: • develop or license their products more rapidly than we can, • complete any applicable regulatory approval process sooner than we can, • market or license their products before we can market or license our products, or • offer their newly developed or licensed products at prices lower than our prices. Any of these events would thereby have a negative effect on the sales of our existing, newly developed or licensed products. The inability to effect acquisitions or licenses of additional branded products in development and FDA-approved products could limit the overall growth of our business. Furthermore, even if we obtain rights to a pharmaceutical product or acquire a company, we may not be able to generate sales sufficient to create a profit or otherwise avoid a loss. Technological developments or the FDA’s approval of new products or of new therapeutic indications for existing products may make our existing products or those products we are licensing or developing obsolete or may make them more difficult to market successfully, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Seven of our products and our royalty segment accounted for 86.4% of our revenues from continuing operations in 2007 and a decrease in sales of these products or royalty income or an increase in competition in the future would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Revenues. Altace®, Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, EpiPen®, Levoxyl®, Sonata®, Avinza® and royalty revenues for the last twelve months ended December 31, 2007 accounted for 30.2%, 20.6%, 12.5%, 5.7%, 4.7%, 3.7%, 5.1% and 3.9% of our total revenues from continuing operations, respectively, or 86.4% in total. Accordingly, any factor adversely affecting sales of any of these products or products for which we receive royalty payments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. For example, on September 11, 2007, the Circuit Court invalidated our ‘722 patent, related to Altace®. Invalidation of this patent has led to a generic version of Altace® entering the market. Additional third parties will likely enter the market with their own generic substitutes for Altace® in 2008. As a result of the entry of generic competition, we expect net sales of Altace® to decline significantly. Product Competition. Additionally, since our currently marketed products are generally established and commonly sold, they are subject to competition from products with similar qualities. For example: • Altace® has a generic substitute that entered the market in December 2007. • Skelaxin® competes in a highly genericized market with other muscle relaxants. • Sonata® competes with other insomnia treatments in a highly competitive market. We anticipate a generic substitute will enter the market in the second quarter of 2008, and we expect the entry of generic products to cause our net sales of Sonata® to decline significantly. • Levoxyl® competes in a competitive and highly genericized market with other levothyroxine sodium products. • Beginning in 2008, Thrombin-JMI®, our bovine thrombin product, will face new competition from human thrombin and recombinant human thrombin. Omrix Biopharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Biologics Licensing Application (“BLA”) for its human thrombin product was approved in September 2007. Zymogenetics, Inc. received approval of its BLA for recombinant human thrombin product in January 2008. Other of our branded pharmaceutical products also face competition from generic substitutes. The manufacturers of generic products typically do not bear the related research and development costs and, consequently, are able to offer such products at considerably lower prices than the branded equivalents. We cannot assure you that any of our products will remain without generic competition, or maintain their market share, gross margins and cash flows, the failure of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. EpiPen. Dey, L.P. markets our EpiPen® auto-injector through a supply agreement with us that expires on December 31, 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, we grant Dey the exclusive right and license to market, distribute and sell EpiPen®, either directly or through subdistributors. A failure by Dey to successfully market and distribute EpiPen® or an increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Royalty Revenue. We receive royalties on sales of Adenoscan®, a product that we developed. Adenoscan® is manufactured, marketed and distributed by Astellas. In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Astellas and a subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (“Teva”) providing Teva with the right to launch a generic version of Adenoscan® pursuant to a license in September 2012, or earlier under certain conditions. A failure by Astellas to successfully manufacture, market and distribute Adenoscan® or an increase in competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents If we cannot integrate the business of companies or products we acquire, or appropriately and successfully manage and coordinate third-party collaborative development activities, our business may suffer. The integration into our business of in-licensed or acquired assets or businesses, as well as the coordination and collaboration of research and development, sales and marketing efforts with third parties, requires significant management attention, maintenance of adequate operational, financial and management information systems, integration of systems that we acquire into our existing systems, and verification that the acquired systems meet our standards for internal control over financial reporting. Our future results will also depend in part on our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified employees to manage expanded operations efficiently and in accordance with applicable regulatory standards. If we cannot manage our third-party collaborations and integrate in-licensed and acquired assets successfully, or, if we do not establish and maintain an appropriate administrative, support and control infrastructure to support these activities, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on our ability to make the necessary certifications with respect to our internal controls. We are required annually, or on an interim basis as needed, to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and goodwill for impairment. If sales of our products decline because of, for example, generic competition or an inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient supply of product, the intangible asset value of any declining product could become impaired. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $910.1 million of net intangible assets and goodwill. Intangible assets primarily include the net book value of various product rights, trademarks, patents and other intangible rights. If a change in circumstances causes us to lower our future sales forecast for a product, we may be required to write off a portion of the net book value of the intangible assets associated with that product. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we estimate the fair value of our individual business reporting units on a discounted cash flow basis. In the event the value of an individual business reporting unit declines significantly, it could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any impairment of the net book value of any intangible asset or goodwill, depending on the size, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products with whom we are presently engaged, or have previously been engaged, in litigation, and these agreements could subject us to claims that we have violated federal and/or state anti-trust laws. We have negotiated and entered into a number of agreements with manufacturers and/or distributors of generic pharmaceutical products, some of whom are presently engaged or have previously been engaged in litigation with us. Governmental and/or private parties may allege that these arrangements and activities in furtherance of the success of these arrangements violate applicable state or federal anti-trust laws. Alternatively, courts could interpret these laws in a manner contrary to current understandings of such laws. If a court or other governmental body were to conclude that a violation of these laws had occurred, any liability based on such a finding could be material and adverse and could be preceded or followed by private litigation such as class action litigation. For example, we have received civil investigative demands (“CIDs”) for information from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”). The CIDs require us to provide information related to our collaboration with Arrow, the dismissal without prejudice of our patent infringement litigation against Cobalt under the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984 and other information. We are cooperating with the FTC in this investigation. Unfavorable results in pending and future claims and litigation matters could have an adverse impact on us. We are named as a party in various lawsuits, as are certain of our current and former directors and certain of our former officers. For information about our pending material litigation matters, please see Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(1), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” While we intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these actions, we are generally unable to predict the 22 Table of Contents outcome or reasonably estimate the range of potential loss, if any, in the pending litigation. If we were not to prevail in the pending litigation, we could be required to pay material sums in connection with judgments or settlements related to these matters, or they could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any significant delays or difficulties in the manufacture of, or supply of materials for, our products may reduce our profit margins and revenues, limit the sales of our products, or harm our products’ reputations. Many of our product lines, including Skelaxin®, Thrombin-JMI®, Avinza®, Sonata® and Synercid®, are currently manufactured in part or entirely by third parties. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our profit margins or may result in unforeseen delays or other problems beyond our control. For example, if any of these third parties are not in compliance with applicable regulations, the manufacture of our products could be delayed, halted or otherwise adversely affected. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute our products as planned. If we encounter delays or difficulties with contract manufacturers in producing or packaging our products, the distribution, marketing and subsequent sales of these products could be adversely affected, and we may have to seek alternative sources of supply or abandon product lines or sell them on unsatisfactory terms. We might not be able to enter into alternative supply arrangements in a timely manner or at commercially acceptable rates, if at all. We also cannot assure you that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. Sales of Thrombin-JMI® may be affected by the perception of risks associated with some of the raw materials used in its manufacture. If we are unable to maintain purification procedures at our facilities that are in accordance with the FDA’s expectations for biological products generally, the FDA could limit our ability to manufacture biological products at those facilities. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, our product Thrombin-JMI® accounted for 12.5% of our total revenues from continuing operations. The source material for Thrombin-JMI® comes from bovine plasma and lung tissue which has been certified by the United States Department of Agriculture for use in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products. Bovine-sourced materials, particularly those from outside the United States, may be of some concern because of potential transmission of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or “BSE.” However, we have taken precautions to minimize the risks of contamination from BSE in our source materials and process. Our principal precaution is the use of bovine materials only from FDA-approved sources in the United States. Accordingly, all source animals used in our production of Thrombin-JMI® are of United States origin. Additionally, source animals used in production of Thrombin-JMI® are generally less than 18 months of age (BSE has not been identified in animals less than 30 months of age). There is currently no alternative to the bovine-sourced materials for the manufacture of Thrombin-JMI®. We have two approved vendors as sources of supply of the bovine raw materials. Any interruption or delay in the supply of these materials could adversely affect the sales of Thrombin-JMI®. We will continue surveillance of the source and believe that the risk of BSE contamination in the source materials for Thrombin-JMI® is very low. While we believe that our procedures and those of our vendor for the supply, testing and handling of the bovine material comply with all federal, state, and local regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. There are high levels of global public concern about BSE. Physicians could determine not to administer Thrombin-JMI® because of the perceived risk, which could adversely affect our sales of the product. Any injuries resulting from BSE contamination could expose us to extensive liability. If public concern for the risk of BSE infection in the United States should increase, the manufacture and sale of Thrombin-JMI® and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The FDA expects manufacturers of biological products to have validated processes capable of removing extraneous viral contaminants to a high level of assurance. We have developed and implemented appropriate processing steps to achieve maximum assurance for the removal of potential extraneous viral contaminants 23 Table of Contents from Thrombin-JMI®, which does not include BSE because it is not a viral contaminant, and we gained FDA approval for these processes. If we are unable to successfully maintain these processing steps or obtain the necessary supplies to do so in accordance with the FDA’s expectations, the manufacture and sale of Thrombin-JMI® and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Wholesaler and distributor buying patterns and other factors may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and these fluctuations may adversely affect our short-term results. Further, our access to wholesaler and distributor inventory levels and sales data affects our ability to estimate certain reserves included in our financial statements. Our results of operations, including, in particular, product sales revenue, may vary from quarter to quarter due to many factors. Sales to wholesalers and distributors represent a substantial portion of our total sales. Buying patterns of our wholesalers and distributors may vary from time to time. In the event wholesalers and distributors with whom we do business determine to limit their purchases of our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. For example, in advance of an anticipated price increase, customers may order pharmaceutical products in larger than normal quantities. The ordering of excess quantities in any quarter could cause sales of some of our branded pharmaceutical products to be lower in subsequent quarters than they would have been otherwise. As part of our ongoing efforts to facilitate improved management of wholesale inventory levels of our branded pharmaceutical products, we have entered into inventory management and data services agreements with each of our three key wholesale customers and other wholesale customers. These agreements provide wholesalers incentives to manage inventory levels and provide timely and accurate data with respect to inventory levels held, and valuable data regarding sales and marketplace activity. We rely on the timeliness and accuracy of the data that each customer provides to us on a regular basis pursuant to these agreements. If our wholesalers fail to provide us with timely and accurate data in accordance with the agreements, our estimates for certain reserves included in our financial statements could be materially and adversely affected. Other factors that may affect quarterly results include, but are not limited to, expenditures related to the acquisition, sale and promotion of pharmaceutical products, a changing customer base, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, new products introduced by us or our competitors, the mix of products we sell, sales and marketing expenditures, product recalls, competitive pricing pressures and general economic and industry conditions that may affect customer demand. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or improving our profitability or avoiding losses in any future period. Our relationships with the U.S. Department of Defense and other government entities subject us to risks associated with doing business with the government. All U.S. government contracts provide that they may be terminated for the convenience of the government as well as for default. Our Meridian Auto-Injector segment has pharmaceutical products that are presently sold primarily to the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) under an Industrial Base Maintenance Contract (“IBMC”). The current IBMC expires in July 2008. Although we have reason to believe the DoD will renew the IBMC based on our relationship of many years, we cannot assure you that it will do so. In the event the DoD does not renew the IBMC, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the unexpected termination of one or more of our significant government contracts could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A surge capability provision allows for the coverage of defense mobilization requirements in the event of rapid military deployment. If this surge capability provision becomes operative, we may be required to devote more of our Meridian Auto-Injector segment manufacturing capacity to the production of products for the government, which could result in less manufacturing capacity being devoted to products in this segment with higher profit margins. 24 Table of Contents Our supply contracts with the DoD are subject to post-award audit and potential price determination. These audits may include a review of our performance on the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Therefore, a post-award audit or price redetermination could result in an adjustment to our revenues. From time to time the DoD makes claims for pricing adjustments with respect to completed contracts. If a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with the government. Other risks involved in government sales include the unpredictability in funding for various government programs and the risks associated with changes in procurement policies and priorities. Reductions in defense budgets may result in reductions in our revenues. We also provide our nerve agent antidote auto-injectors to a number of state agencies and local communities for homeland defense against chemical agent terrorist attacks. Changes in governmental and agency procurement policies and priorities may also result in a reduction in government funding for programs involving our auto-injectors. A loss in government funding of these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with the terms and conditions of our corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services requires significant resources and management time and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or, under certain circumstances, excluded from government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales. In October 2005, as part of our settlement of the government pricing investigation of our company we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS/OIG”). For additional information, please see Note 19, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in Part IV, Item 15(a)(1), “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” The purpose of the CIA, which applies to all of our U.S. subsidiaries and employees, is to promote compliance with the federal health care and procurement programs in which we participate, including the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the Medicare Program, the 340B Drug Pricing Program, and the Veterans Administration Pricing Program. In addition to the challenges associated with complying with the regulations applicable to each of these programs (as discussed below), we are required, among other things, to keep in place our current compliance program, provide specified training to employees, retain an independent review organization to conduct periodic audits of our Medicaid Rebate calculations and our automated systems, processes, policies and practices related to government pricing calculations, and to provide periodic reports to HHS/OIG. Maintaining the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the CIA is expected to continue to require a significant portion of management’s attention as well as the application of significant resources. Failing to meet the CIA obligations could have serious consequences for us including stipulated monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, flagrant or repeated violations of the CIA could result in our being excluded from participating in government health care programs, which could materially reduce our sales. Our shareholder rights plan, charter and bylaws discourage unsolicited takeover proposals and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their common stock. We have a shareholder rights plan that may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover proposals. The rights issued under the shareholder rights plan would cause substantial dilution to a person or group which attempts to acquire us on terms not approved in advance by our Board of Directors. In addition, our charter 25 Table of Contents and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that shareholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors, although the classification of the Board is being phased out and will be eliminated in 2010; • the ability of our Board of Directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and • special voting requirements for the amendment of our charter and bylaws. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Tennessee law, each of which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions and the rights plan may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. At times, our stock price has been volatile, and such volatility in the future could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our common stock has at times been volatile. The stock market in general and the market for the securities of emerging pharmaceutical companies such as King, in particular, have experienced extreme volatility. Many factors contribute to this volatility, including: • variations in our results of operations; • perceived risks and uncertainties concerning our business; • announcements of earnings; • developments in the governmental investigations or derivative litigation; • the commencement of, or adverse developments in, any material litigation; • failure to meet timelines for product development or other projections or forward-looking statements we may make to the public; • failure to meet or exceed security analysts’ financial projections for our company; • comments or recommendations made by securities analysts; • general market conditions; • perceptions about market conditions in the pharmaceutical industry; • announcements of technological innovations or the results of clinical trials or studies; • changes in marketing, product pricing and sales strategies or development of new products by us or our competitors; • changes in domestic or foreign governmental regulations or regulatory approval processes; and • announcements concerning regulatory compliance and government agency reviews. The volatility of our common stock imposes a greater risk of capital losses on our shareholders than would a less volatile stock. In addition, such volatility makes it difficult to ascribe a stable valuation to a shareholder’s holdings of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure to comply with laws and government regulations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Virtually all of our activities are regulated by federal and state statutes and government agencies. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, distribution and advertising of our products, and 26 Table of Contents disposal of waste products arising from these activities, are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency, or “DEA,” the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Agriculture, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), as well as by foreign governments in countries where we distribute some of our products. Failure to comply with the policies or requirements established by these agencies could subject us to enforcement actions or other consequences. For example, noncompliance with applicable FDA policies or requirements could subject us to suspensions of manufacturing or distribution, seizure of products, product recalls, fines, criminal penalties, injunctions, failure to approve pending drug product applications or withdrawal of product marketing approvals. Similar civil or criminal penalties could be imposed by other government agencies, such as the DEA, the EPA or various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are manufactured, sold or distributed, and could have ramifications for our contracts with government agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Defense. The FDA has the authority and discretion to withdraw existing marketing approvals and to review the regulatory status of marketed products at any time. For example, the FDA may require withdrawal of an approved marketing application for any drug product marketed if new information reveals questions about a drug’s safety or efficacy. All drugs must be manufactured in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices and drug products subject to an approved application must be manufactured, processed, packaged, held and labeled in accordance with information contained in the approved application. While we believe that all of our currently marketed pharmaceutical products comply with FDA enforcement policies, have approval pending or have received the requisite agency approvals, our marketing is subject to challenge by the FDA at any time. Through various enforcement mechanisms, the FDA can ensure that noncomplying drugs are no longer marketed and that advertising and marketing materials and campaigns are in compliance with FDA regulations. In addition, modifications, enhancements, or changes in manufacturing sites of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be received and which may be subject to a lengthy FDA review process. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers are continually subject to inspection by governmental agencies. Manufacturing operations could be interrupted or halted in any of those facilities if a government or regulatory authority is unsatisfied with the results of an inspection. Any interruptions of this type could result in materially reduced sales of our products or increased manufacturing costs. For additional information please see the section entitled “Government Regulation” in Item 1, “Business” in Part I. Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, “CERCLA,” the EPA can impose liability for the entire cost of cleanup of contaminated properties upon each or any of the current and former site owners, site operators or parties who sent waste to the site, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. In addition, many states, including Tennessee, Michigan, Wisconsin, Florida and Missouri, have statutes and regulatory authorities similar to CERCLA and to the EPA. We have entered into hazardous waste hauling agreements with licensed third parties to properly dispose of hazardous wastes. We cannot assure you that we will not be found liable under CERCLA or other applicable state statutes or regulations for the costs of undertaking a cleanup at a site to which our wastes were transported. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, enforcement positions, statutes or legal interpretations, when and if promulgated, adopted or enacted, may have on our business in the future. These changes could, among other things, require modifications to our manufacturing methods or facilities, expanded or different labeling, new approvals, the recall, replacement or discontinuance of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. These changes, new legislation, or failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An increase in product liability claims or product recalls could harm our business. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our technologies or products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects. These risks exist for products in clinical 27 Table of Contents development and with respect to products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. While we have taken, and will continue to take, what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may not be able to avoid significant product liability exposure. We currently have product liability insurance covering all of our significant products, however, we cannot assure you that the level or breadth of any insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. With respect to any product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, we could be responsible for any monetary damages awarded by any court or any voluntary monetary settlements. Significant judgments against us for product liability for which we have no insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product recalls or product field alerts may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of the FDA, other government agencies or other companies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical product sales. From time to time, we may recall products for various reasons, including failure of our products to maintain their stability through their expiration dates. Any recall or product field alert has the potential of damaging the reputation of the product or our reputation. To date, these recalls have not been significant and have not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, we cannot assure you that the number and significance of recalls will not increase in the future. Any significant recalls could materially affect our sales and the prescription trends for the products and damage the reputation of the products or our reputation. In these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be required to reimburse government programs for underpayments and could be required to pay penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Medicaid reporting and payment obligations are highly complex and in certain respects ambiguous. If we fail to comply with these obligations, we could be subject to additional reimbursements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our processes for estimating amounts due under Medicaid and other governmental pricing programs involve subjective decisions, and, as a result, these calculations will remain subject to the risk of errors. The insolvency of any of our principal customers, who are wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As with most other pharmaceutical companies, our principal customers are primarily wholesale pharmaceutical distributors. The wholesale distributor network for pharmaceutical products has in recent years been subject to increasing consolidation, which has increased our, and other industry participants’, customer concentration. Accordingly, three key customers accounted for approximately 75% of our gross sales and a significant portion of our accounts receivable for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. The insolvency of any of our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any reduction in reimbursement levels by managed care organizations or other third-party payors may have an adverse effect on our revenues. Commercial success in producing, marketing and selling branded prescription pharmaceutical products depends, in part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement from third-party health care payors, such as the government, private health insurers and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging whether to reimburse certain pharmaceutical products and medical services. For example, many managed health care organizations limit reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. These limits may take the form of formularies with differential co-pay tiers. The resulting competition among pharmaceutical companies to maximize their product reimbursement has generally reduced growth in average selling prices across the industry. We cannot assure you that our products will be appropriately reimbursed or included on the formulary lists of managed care organizations or any or all Medicare Part D plans, or that downward pricing pressures in the industry generally will not negatively impact our operations. 28 Table of Contents We establish accruals for the estimated amounts of rebates we will pay to managed care and government organizations each quarter. Any increased usage of our products through Medicaid, Medicare, or managed care programs will increase the amount of rebates that we owe. We cannot assure you that our products will be included on the formulary lists of managed care or Medicare organizations or that adverse reimbursement issues will not result in materially lower revenues. If we fail to comply with the safe harbors provided under various federal and state laws, our business could be adversely affected. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive, or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to include, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors” or exemptions for certain payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. We seek to comply with these safe harbors. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions addressing some of our practices, it is possible that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly (in the civil context), or knowingly and willfully (in the criminal context), presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicaid and Medicare) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs, including Medicaid and Medicare. Any such violations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the future, the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials may adversely affect the sales of our products or the values of the intangible assets associated with them. From time to time studies or clinical trials on various aspects of pharmaceutical products are conducted by academics or others, including government agencies, the results of which, when published, may have dramatic effects on the markets for the pharmaceutical products that are the subject of the study, or those of related or similar products. The publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete could adversely affect our sales, the prescription trends for our products and the reputation of our products. In the event of the publication of negative results of studies or clinical trials related to our branded pharmaceutical products or the therapeutic areas in which our products compete, sales of these products may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, potential write-offs of the intangible assets associated with the affected products could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New legislation or regulatory proposals may adversely affect our revenues. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, including the cost of prescription products, importation and reimportation of prescription products from countries outside the United States and changes in the levels at which pharmaceutical companies are reimbursed for sales of their products, have been proposed and could be proposed in the future. While we cannot predict when or whether any of these proposals will be adopted or the effect these proposals may have on our business, these proposals, as well as the adoption of any other proposals, may exacerbate industry-wide pricing pressures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are unable at this time to predict or estimate the effect of any such regulations, if any. 29 Table of Contents A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts that are not yet determinable. These statements also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases, such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. These statements are contained in the “Business,” “Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” sections, as well as other sections of this report. Forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, those regarding: • the potential of, including anticipated net sales and prescription trends for, our branded pharmaceutical products, particularly Altace®, Skelaxin®, Avinza®, Thrombin-JMI®, Levoxyl® and Sonata®; • expectations regarding the enforceability and effectiveness of product-related patents, including in particular patents related to Skelaxin®, Avinza®, Sonata® and Adenoscan®; • expected trends and projections with respect to particular products, reportable segment and income and expense line items; • the adequacy of our liquidity and capital resources; • anticipated capital expenditures; • the development, approval and successful commercialization of Remoxytm, Acuroxtm, CorVuetm and other products; • the successful execution of our growth and restructuring strategies, including our accelerated strategic shift; • anticipated developments and expansions of our business; • our plans for the manufacture of some of our products, including products manufactured by third parties; • the potential costs, outcomes and timing of research, clinical trials and other development activities involving pharmaceutical products, including, but not limited to, the magnitude and timing of potential payments to third parties in connection with development activities; • the development of product line extensions; • the expected timing of the initial marketing of certain products; • products developed, acquired or in-licensed that may be commercialized; • our intent, beliefs or current expectations, primarily with respect to our future operating performance; • expectations regarding sales growth, gross margins, manufacturing productivity, capital expenditures and effective tax rates; • expectations regarding the outcome of various pending legal proceedings including the Skelaxin® and Avinza® patent challenges, securities litigation, and other legal proceedings described in this report; and • expectations regarding our financial condition and liquidity as well as future cash flows and earnings. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those contemplated by our forward-looking statements. These known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in detail in the “Risk Factors” section and in other sections of this report. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 