D. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations depend on the volatile domestic and international coal markets. As substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sales of coal, our business and operating results depend on domestic and international supply and demand for coal. The domestic and international coal markets are cyclical and have historically experienced pricing volatility, which reflect, among other factors, the conditions of the PRC and global economy and demand fluctuations in key industries that have high coal consumption. Difficult economic conditions have resulted in lower coal prices, which in turn affect our operational and financial performance. The average selling price of our coal products was RMB341.8, RMB409.0 and RMB640.2 per tonne in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Since reaching record high levels in 2008, domestic coal prices have fallen due to weakening demand as a result of the global economic downturn. We expect our 2009 average selling prices for coal to be lower than our 2008 averages and cannot assure you that we will reach the same level of profitability as in 2008. 5 Table of Contents The domestic and international coal markets are affected by supply and demand. The demand for coal is primarily affected by the global economy and the performance of power generation, chemical, metallurgy and construction materials industries. In addition, the availability and prices of alternative sources of energy to coal, such as natural gas, oil, hydropower and nuclear power as well as international shipping costs also affect demand for coal. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of coal reserves, the transportation capacity of coal transportation railways, the volume of domestic and international coal supplies and the type, quality and price of competitors’ coal. Developments in the international coal market may adversely affect our export sales and future operational results. A significant increase in global coal supply or reduction in coal demand for our coal by foreign or domestic electricity generation or metallurgy industries may have an adverse effect on coal prices, which in turn, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and profitability are affected by global economic conditions. The current global financial crisis and economic downturn have adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including in China. Due to the global economical downturn and a decrease in consumer demand, the economic situation in China has been quite severe since the second half of 2008. This change in the macro-economic conditions has and is expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Coal prices and margins are likely to remain lower than in previous year due to reduced demand. We have experienced pricing pressure on our coal products, which has an adverse effect on our profitability. These factors may also lead to intensified competition for market share and available margin. The financial and economic situation may have a negative impact on third parties suppliers and customers. Any of these factors may affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our business is dependent on our major customers. Since 2004, Huadian Power International Corporation Limited (“Huadian International”) has been our largest customer. We supplied 4.9 million, 5.4 million and 8.8 million tonnes of coal to Huadian International in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, which represented 14.2%, 15.5% and 23.3% of our sales volume in the same periods, respectively. Substantially all of Huadian International’s coal purchases were supplied to Zouxian Electric Power Plant (“Zouxian Power Plant”). The portion of our coal sales, conducted through Huadian International, to Zouxian Power Plant accounted for 11.3%, 12.1% and 12.9% of our net sales of coal in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Zouxian Power Plant used approximately 11.8 million tonnes of coal in 2008. We estimate that we supplied approximately 92.9%, 60.8% and 57.3% of Zouxian Power Plant’s coal requirement in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We believe we will remain the principal coal supplier to Zouxian Power Plant because (i) our geographic proximity to Zouxian Power Plant, (ii) our railway network is the only network with direct access to Zouxian Power Plant and (iii) Zouxian Power Plant’s boilers have been custom designed to use the type of coal that we produce. Because purchases by Zouxian Power Plant compose a large portion of our revenue, any adverse developments at Zouxian Power Plant could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is dependent on short-term sales contracts and letters of intent. Approximately 87.3%, 86.9% and 87.5% of our sales in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, were derived from sales contracts or letters of intent. These sales contracts and letters of intent generally specify the quantity and delivery schedule of purchases for a term generally not exceeding one year. Coal prices under the letters of intent are generally determined subsequently at the time of sale to reflect prevailing market prices. A decline in coal prices at the time of actual sale would have an immediate and adverse impact on our results of operations. An omission of a material term may make a letter of intent unenforceable. Historically, we and our customers have carried out a significant majority of the transactions contemplated under the letters of intent we enter into. However, a sudden and significant increase in the proportion of unperformed letters of intents or unrealized sales could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, any changes in regulations, cost or availability of labor, raw materials or shipping and foreign exchange rates during the period between the formation and performance of these letters of intent may affect our ability to perform a contract or the contract’s profitability. 6 Table of Contents Our products may be subject to governmental price control measures, which may adversely affect our profitability. The PRC Government has implemented a series of measures to overhaul historical price and supply controls with the aim to encourage market practices. In 2008, the PRC Government continued its efforts to encourage market-based negotiations and to bring thermal coal prices in line with market prices. The National Development and Reform Commission (“NDRC”) issued a notice in December 2008 reaffirming that coal prices should continue to be set by market pricing mechanisms and be determined based on the negotiations of suppliers and consumers that reflect supply and demand, resource scarcity and the external costs of coal production. Despite the increasing market-orientation of the PRC coal market, our operations continue to be subject to price-control risks. The PRC Government has historically intervened in the market when market prices fluctuate excessively to regulate supply. To ensure uninterrupted power generation at power plants during the peak season for electricity demand, the NDRC imposed price caps on coal prices twice in the summer of 2008. Similarly the provincial governments of Shandong and Shaanxi implemented temporary measures to control the supply of thermal coal such as the enforcement of coal supply contracts, mandatory increases in coal supply and price moratoriums. Even though the above temporary measures had all been abolished as of the December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that PRC government agencies will not intervene in the domestic coal market in the future, which may have a negative impact on our operations, pricing and profitability. We rely on the PRC’s railway transportation system to deliver our products. We rely on the PRC national railway system and our railway network to delivery coal to our customers. Approximately 50.2%, 37.3% and 32.9% of our total net sales of coal in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, were derived from sales of coal that were transported on the PRC national railway system (excluding sales to Zouxian Power Plant, which were transported exclusively on our own railway network). The limited transportation capacity of the national railway system is not sufficient to meet domestic coal transportation requirements. Even though, our domestic customers are mainly located in Eastern China, where the railway system is relatively more advanced than other parts of the PRC, our delivery can potentially be affected. In addition to railway systems, we use major coal shipping ports along the eastern coast of China to ship coal to customers located in the coastal region of China and overseas. We cannot assure you that we will continue to secure sufficient railway and port capacity to deliver our coal or that we will not experience any material delays in deliveries or substantial increases in transportation costs as a result of insufficient rail capacity. The coal reserve data in this annual report are only estimates. Our coal reserve data are only estimates, which may differ materially from actual reserves. Our reserve estimates may change substantially if new information becomes available. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves, which require the consideration of a number of factors, assumptions and variables, which may be beyond our control and cannot be ascertained despite due investigation. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from our long-term business and operational plans, which are based on our coal reserve estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not adjust our coal reserve estimates downward in the future, and in such event, our production and the useful life of our mines may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is intensifying, and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including pricing, production capacity, coal quality and specifications, transportation capacity, cost structure and brand recognition. Our coal business competes in the domestic and international markets with other large domestic and international coal producers. Ongoing consolidation in the PRC coal industry has increased the level of competition in our industry. Our competitors may have stronger financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do and have brand names with wider recognition in the domestic and international markets. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to remain as competitive if changes or developments in the market weaken our existing competitive advantages. The quality of our coal products positions us favorable against our competitors. However, we cannot assure you that quality improvements by our competitors will not erode this advantage. We also cannot assure you that continual improvements in China’s transportation infrastructure, particularly the national railway transportation network, will not diminish our geographic advantage of being located in Eastern China, where coal demand is the strongest in China. We believe that we have competed favorably on transportation capacity and delivery costs. Our principal competitors are located predominately in Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, where there are occasional rail capacity shortages and significant costs that have to be incurred to transport coal from these regions to Eastern China. However, the PRC Government has and plans to continue to construct additional railways to transport coal from northern and northwestern China to Eastern China. The completion of these railway projects may increase the supply of coal that can be delivered to customers in Eastern China, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our results of operations depend on our ability to acquire or develop new coal mines or coal reserves. The recoverable coal reserves in our existing mines decline as we produce coal. As our ability to significantly increase our production capacity at existing mines is limited, our ability to increase our coal production will depend on increasing the production of our recently developed coal reserves and acquiring new mines, and to a lesser extent, the expanding our existing coal mines. We acquired Jining III Coal Mine and Southland Colliery in 2001 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, we acquired 95.67% of the equity interest in Heze Nenghua, followed by the grant of the mining rights of Zhaolou Coal Mine through Heze Nenghua in May 2008. Zhaolou Coal Mine commenced production in March 2009. In February 2007, our Company increased our equity interest in Shanxi Nenghua from 98% to 100%, by acquiring the 2% equity interest that was previously held by Lunan Fertilizer Plant of Yankuang Group. Shanxi Nenghua owns Tianchi Coal Mine, which commenced operations in November 2006. We are also in the process of establishing an associate company for a coal mining project in Yushuwan, Shaanxi Province. The acquisition of new mines by PRC coal companies, either within China or overseas, and the procurement of related licenses and permits are subject to the PRC Government approval. Delays in securing or failure to secure relevant PRC Government approvals, licenses or permits, as well as any adverse change in government policies may hinder our expansion plans, which may materially and adversely affect our profitability and growth prospects. In connection with overseas acquisitions and expansion, we may encounter challenges due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, suffer foreign exchange losses on overseas investments or face political or regulatory obstacles to acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition targets or acquire these targets on competitive terms and in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully develop new coal mines or expand our existing ones in accordance with our development plans or at all. Failure to successfully acquire suitable targets on competitive terms, develop new coal mines or expand our existing coal mines could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness and growth prospects. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions. As with all underground mining operations, our operations are affected by certain risks inherent in mining, such as rock and roof falls, deterioration in the quality or variations in the thickness of faults and coal seams, methane gas, water discharge, spontaneous combustion, gaseous ignition and other mining hazards. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as maintenance problems or equipment failures. Although we conduct geological investigations on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to address the mining conditions at each mine, we cannot assurance you that adverse mining conditions would not endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. Underground mining is also subject to certain risks such as fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust, roof collapses and ground falls. We cannot assure you that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance to cover these accidents. Our coal mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or cave-ins due to unstable geological structures. Like other coal mining companies, we have experienced accidents that have resulted in property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities and provide occupational safety training for our employees, there can be no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur. We regularly contribute to our work injury insurance fund that compensates employees who sustain work injuries. Consistent with what we believe to be customary practice among PRC enterprises, we do not currently maintain fire, casualty or other property insurance for our properties, equipment or inventories, other than for our vehicles. We may be required to allocate additional funds for land subsidence. Underground mining may cause the land above underground mining sites to subside. Before the commencement of mining, we may relocate inhabitants in areas surrounding our mining sites, or we may compensate the inhabitants for any property losses or damages after mining. PRC regulations require us to set aside provisions to cover the costs associated with land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection. An estimated provision is deducted as an expense in our income statement based on the amount of coal actually extracted. In 2008, RMB2,938.4 million of our provision for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection was deducted as an expense. We significantly increased our provision for these costs in 2008 mainly because government policy changes increased the basis of calculating compensation and reclamation costs to reflect rising income levels and costs. Government policy changes also enlarged the area surrounding mining sites that is subject to reclamation. The provision for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs is determined by our directors based on past occurrences of land subsidence. However, the provision is only an estimate and may be adjusted to reflect the actual effects of our mining activities on the land above our mining sites. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such estimates are accurate or that our land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs will not substantially increase in the future or that the PRC Government will not impose new fees in respect of land subsidence, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As a PRC coal producer, we are subject to significant, extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations: • impose fees for the discharge of waste substances; • require provisions for reclamation and rehabilitation; • impose fines for serious environmental offenses; and • authorize the PRC Government to close any facility that it determines has failed to comply with environmental regulations and suspend any coal operations that cause excessive environmental damage. Our coal mining operations produce waste water, gas emissions and solid waste materials. The PRC Government has tightened enforcement of applicable laws and regulations and adopted more stringent environmental standards. Similarly, our Australian operations are subject to Australia’s stringent environmental regulations. Our budgeted amount for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient, and we may need to allocate additional funds for this purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents In addition, China is a signatory to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which are intended to limit greenhouse gas emissions. On March 14, 2006, the PRC Government released the outline of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development, which sets goals to decrease the amount of energy consumed per unit of GDP by 20 percent and to reduce the emission of certain major pollutants by ten percent. If efforts to reduce energy consumption and control greenhouse gas emissions reduce coal consumption, our revenue would decrease and our business would be adversely affected. We face pricing volatility and intense competition in our methanol operations. We have invested in and commenced the limited production of coal-based methanol at Tianhao Chemicals for domestic sale in September 2008, as well as trial production at Yulin Nenghua in December 2008. The methanol business is a competitive commodity industry with dynamic supply and demand fundamentals. After a number of years of high demand growth that resulted in supply shortage in 2007, the PRC methanol market slowed sharply towards the second half of 2008 and is currently negatively affected by overcapacity and weak demand from major downstream markets. We expect the PRC methanol market to experience oversupply for the next few years. Methanol prices have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, characterized by significant cyclicality. As of May 2009, PRC benchmark methanol prices fell to around RMB1,970 per tonne from record highs of RMB4,170 per tonne in 2008, representing a 52.8% decrease. We expect our methanol prices to be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • global and domestic methanol production; • global energy prices; • methanol plant utilization rates, capacity additions and shut downs; • global economic conditions; • our cost structure and product quality; • compliance costs and environmental risks; and • foreign competition from low cost methanol producers which may have greater resources. As of the end of 2008, we had a total methanol production capacity of 700,000 tonnes. As with developing any new business, we may not progress as planned and may face unexpected obstacles in addition to the anticipated challenges presented by inexperience and market entry barriers. For example, due to the closure of Tianhao Chemicals’ sole supplier of coke oven waste gas, which was delivered through a transmission pipeline that connects our methanol plant with the supplier’s, we temporarily suspended methanol production at Tianhao Chemicals and have not resumed operations as of the date of this annual report. In 2008, our operations at Tianhao Chemicals sustained at a lost of RMB59.1 million compared with our profit of RMB 6,479.6 million for the year. We cannot assure you if Yulin Nenghua will continue to procure raw materials at acceptable terms or if Tianhao Chemicals’ operations will be affected or even suspended because of a raw material shortage. If our projections for the domestic methanol market prove incorrect or if we are unable to otherwise compete effectively, we may not recover the capital and resources we have already invested in our methanol operations. In that event, our business and profitability will be adversely affected. Our electric power business is heavily regulated, which may affect our results of operations. We generated RMB59.8 million of revenue from electric power sales, which represented a small percentage of our total revenue in 2008. The significant majority of electricity that we produce is intended for our own use and only a small portion will be sold. To the extent that we do sell electricity, government management of grid power prices, the price at which power grid operators purchase electricity from power plants, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. The operation of coal-fired power plants is subject to increasingly stringent emission standards of the PRC government, which will set new standards for air pollutant emission in 2010 under the Emission Standard of Air Pollutants for Thermal Power Plants. As a result, our compliance costs will likely increase. As a result of the foregoing, we may experience delays or failure to realize the expected benefits from our acquisition and not realize a full return on our investment. 10 Table of Contents PRC quotas for coal exports may adversely affect the level of our coal export sales. Our export sales (not including the sales by Yancoal Australia) accounted for 19.5%, 4.3% and 0.8% of our net sales of coal in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Since 2004, the NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce sets an annual export quota for domestic coal producers and allocate the quota among authorized coal exporters. The announcement of the export quota available for each fiscal year must be made no later than October 31st of the prior year. After the export quota has been announced, the NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce will begin accepting written applications from authorized coal exporters for an allocation of the following year’s quota. Our export agents have historically received an allocation of the export quota sufficient to satisfy our export volume. However, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, the export quota may have on the level of our export coal sales in 2009 and later years. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our export sales of coal (not including the sales by Yancoal Australia) accounted for approximately 9.9%, 3.2%, and 0.7% respectively, of the PRC’s total coal export. If the quota for national coal exports is reduced, the level of our export sales in future periods could be affected, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not have an export permit and consequently, do not have direct export rights for our coal. As a result, all of our export sales must be made through intermediary export agents. We use export agent services provided by China Coal Energy Group Company, China National Minerals Import and Export Company Limited and Shanxi Coal Import and Export Group Company (collectively, the “Export Agency Companies”). The volume, coal specifications, pricing and final destination of our export sales are determined collectively by us, the Export Agency Companies and our overseas customers. Although we have applied to the PRC Central Government for direct export rights with the assistance of the Shandong provincial government, there can be no assurance that we can obtain such rights. If we cannot obtain an export permit granting us direct export rights, we will have to continue to rely on export agents to export our coal. The Controlling Shareholder’s operations have a significant impact on us. As of December 31, 2008, our Controlling Shareholder, Yankuang Group, owned 52.86% of our outstanding shares and exerts significance influence over us. We may continue to enter into a number of connected transactions with Yankuang Group. Pursuant to the regulations of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the Shanghai Stock Exchange on continuing connected transactions, we complete the necessary review and approval procedures before entering into continuing connected transactions. From 2006 to 2008, we had six continuing connected transaction agreements, including the Provision of Materials and Water Supply Agreement, Provision of Electricity Agreement, Provision of Labor and Services Agreement, Provision of Equipment Maintenance and Repair Works Agreement, Provision of Products and Services Agreement and Provision of Administrative Services for Pension Fund and Retirement Benefits Agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we approved the amendment and renewal of five continuing connected transactions (the “New Continuing Connected Transactions”), taking care to ensure that the transaction amount for each of these agreements stayed within approved annual limits. For details on the agreements for the New Continuing Connected Transactions, see “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transaction”. Any material financial or operational developments experienced by the Controlling Shareholder which lead to the disruption of its operations or impairs its ability to perform the continuing connected transactions could materially affect our operations and future prospects. Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to the PRC. A significant majority of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, as such, we are subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including, but not limited to, the following: • The central and local governments of the PRC have historically supported the development of the PRC coal industry and the continued operation of certain coal producers. A change in current policies that are favorable to us may adversely affect our operational flexibility and our ability to expand our business operations or increase our profitability. 11 Table of Contents • Under current PRC regulatory requirements, the capital expenditure we allocate to develop new coal mine projects must be approved by the PRC Government. Failure to obtain timely approvals for our projects may adversely affect our business plans and operating results. • Since 1997, the PRC Government has promulgated a series of laws and regulations to stimulate the overall development of the PRC economy. Despite efforts to develop the PRC legal system, it is continuously evolving and the enforcement and interpretation of certain laws remains uncertain. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be influenced by evolving government policies and political change. • On July 21, 2005, China adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect the value of our net assets, earnings and any declared dividends when translated or converted into U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. RMB fluctuations mainly affect (a) our income from exports denominated in foreign currencies, (b) the conversion of foreign currency deposits, and (c) the import cost of equipment and fittings. • The PRC Government will continue to reform the PRC economic system. A number of reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to refinement and adjustments. We may be directly affected by these reforms or indirectly affected by changes in political, economic and social factors that result from these reform measures. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the PRC Government policies including, but not limited to, changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof) related to inflation control, economic stimulus policies, tax policies and rates, currency conversion restrictions and tariffs and other import restrictions. • A new Labor Contract Law of the PRC became effective on January 1, 2008, which imposes more stringent requirements for signing labor contracts, paying remuneration, stipulating probation and penalties and terminating labor contracts. We cannot assure you that efforts taken to comply with the requirements of this new Labor Contract Law will not adversely affect our business or operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates. We face risks stemming from currency exchange fluctuation between the Australian dollar and U.S. dollar because our export sales are denominated in U.S. dollars but our operations in Australia incur costs and expenses in Australian dollars. An appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may similarly reduce the value of our export sales, and a depreciation of the Renminbi would increase our costs of importing equipment and components. In 2008, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to buy Australian dollars at a specified rate to manage the currency risks of forecasted sales denominated in U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2008, the fair value liability of our forward contracts was approximately RMB29.4 million as a result of the Australian dollar’s depreciation. We cannot assure that our hedging arrangement will be effective or that our results of operations will be not negatively affected by exchange fluctuations. Our coal operations are extensively regulated by the PRC Government and government regulations may limit our activities and adversely affect our business operations. Our coal operations, like other PRC energy companies, are subject to extensive regulation by the PRC Government. National governmental authorities, such as the National Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Land and Resources, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety and the State Bureau of Taxation, as well as corresponding provincial 12 Table of Contents and local authorities and agencies exercise extensive control over the mining and transportation (including rail and sea transport) of coal in China. Oversight from these authorities and agencies may affect, among others, the following aspects of our operations: • the use and grant of mining rights; • rehabilitation of mining sites and surrounding areas; • mining recovery rates; • pricing of our coal transportation services; • taxes and fees for our industry and levies imposed by government authorities from time to time; • application of capital investments; • export quotas and procedures; • pension fund appropriations; • preferential tax treatment; and • environmental and safety standards. As a result of regulatory oversight, our ability to execute our business strategies or to carry out or expand our business operations may be restricted. We may experience substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, permits and licenses for our business operations. Our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in the PRC Government’s regulations and policies that affect the coal industry. The adoption of new legislation or regulations, or the new interpretation of existing legislation or regulations, may materially and adversely affect our operations, our cost structure or product demand. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may cause us to substantially change our existing operations or incur significant compliance costs. 