Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a wide range of risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s various businesses and the Company’s overall financial performance. In addition to the matters discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the financial statements and other items filed herewith), the Company believes the more significant of such risks and uncertainties include the following: • Changes in the Extent to Which Standardized Tests Are Used in the Admissions Process by Colleges or Graduate Schools A substantial portion of Kaplan’s revenues and operating income are generated by its Test Preparation and Admission Division. Thus any significant reduction in the use of standardized tests in the college or graduate school admissions process could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Changes in the Extent to Which Licensing and Proficiency Examinations Are Used to Qualify Individuals to Pursue Certain Careers A substantial portion of the revenues of Kaplan’s Professional Division comes from preparing individuals for licensing or technical-proficiency examinations in various fields. If licensing or technical proficiency requirements are relaxed or eliminated to any significant degree in those fields served by Kaplan’s Professional Division, such actions could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results. • Reductions in the Amount of Funds Available Under the Federal Title IV Programs to Students in Kaplan’s Higher Education Division Schools Or Changes in the Terms on Which Such Funds Are Made Available During the Company’s 2006 fiscal year, funds provided under the student financial aid programs created under Title IV of the Federal Higher Education Act accounted for approximately $580 million of the net revenues of the schools in Kaplan’s Higher Education Division. As noted above in the section titled “Education–Title IV Federal Student Financial Aid Programs,” any legislative, regulatory or other development that has the effect of materially reducing the amount of Title IV financial assistance available to the students of those schools would have a significant adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. In addition, any development that has the effect of making the terms on which Title IV financial assistance 24 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY Table of Contents is available to students of those schools materially less attractive could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Risks and Uncertainties Related to Acquisitions of Other Businesses The Company’s Kaplan subsidiary has historically been an active acquirer of businesses that provide educational services, including in some cases businesses that have different characteristics than existing Kaplan businesses and businesses with all or most of their operations outside of the United States. Consistent with this historical trend, during 2006 Kaplan completed a total of 11 acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks and uncertainties, including possible difficulties in efficiently integrating the service offerings, personnel and accounting and other administrative systems of an acquired business with those of the acquiring organization, the consequences of diverting the attention of senior management from existing operations, the risk that an acquired business does not meet or exceed the financial projections that supported the price paid for it, the possible failure of the due diligence process to identify significant business risks or undisclosed liabilities associated with the acquired business, and, in the case of a business with all or most of its operations outside of the United States, the difficulties of effectively managing and staffing foreign operations. • Actions of Competitors, Including Price Changes and the Introduction of Competitive Offerings All of the Company’s various businesses face significant competition and could be negatively impacted if competitors reduce prices or introduce new products or services that compete more effectively with the corresponding products or services offered by the Company. • Changes in Prevailing Economic Conditions, Particularly in the Specific Geographic Markets Served by the Company’s Newspaper Publishing and Television Broadcasting Businesses A significant portion of the Company’s revenues comes from advertising, and the demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both nationally and in specific local markets. Thus declines in economic activity could adversely affect the operating results of the Company’s newspaper and magazine publishing and television broadcasting businesses. • Changing Preferences of Readers or Viewers The Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses need to attract significant numbers of readers and viewers in order to sell advertising on favorable terms. Those businesses will be adversely affected to the extent individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media. • Changing Perceptions About the Effectiveness of Publishing and Television Broadcasting in Delivering Advertising Historically, newspaper and magazine publishing and television broadcasting have been viewed as cost-effective methods of delivering various forms of advertising. To the extent that advertisers decide other forms of media in which the Company has a less significant position are superior, in terms of cost-effectiveness or other features, the profitability of the Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses will suffer. • Technological Innovations in News, Information or Video Programming Distribution Systems The continuing growth and technological expansion of Internet-based services has impacted the Company’s media businesses in various ways, and the development of direct broadcast satellite systems has significantly increased the competition faced by the Company’s cable television systems. The development and deployment of new technologies has the potential to affect the Company’s businesses, both positively and negatively, in ways that cannot now be reliably predicted. • Changes in the Nature and Extent of Government Regulations, Particularly in the Case of Television Broadcasting and Cable Television Operations The Company’s television broadcasting and cable television businesses operate in highly regulated environments and complying with applicable regulations has increased the costs and reduced the revenues of both businesses. Changes in regulations have the potential to further negatively impact those businesses, not only by increasing compliance costs and (through restrictions on certain types of advertising, limitations on pricing flexibility or other means) reducing revenues, but also by possibly creating more favorable regulatory environments for the providers of competing services. More generally, all of the Company’s businesses could have their profitability or their competitive positions adversely affected by significant changes in applicable regulations. 2006 FORM 10-K 25 Table of Contents • Changes in the Cost or Availability of Raw Materials, Particularly Newsprint The Company’s newspaper publishing businesses collectively spend more than $100 million a year on newsprint. Thus material increases in the cost of newsprint or significant disruptions in the supply of newsprint could negatively affect the operating results of the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 