Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. • Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. Evaluations are made of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the real world possibility that judgments in our decision-making can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. • The Class Action Securities Litigation if continued or if decided against us could have a material adverse effect. Resulting from our inability to timely file a 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 and the associated decline in the trading price of our stock, a series of class action securities claims were filed and later consolidated into one action pending in Houston, Texas. We have Directors and Officers insurance that provides coverage for this action. It is difficult to predict liability or any potential range of damages that we might incur in connection with this action. An adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or cash flows. • Downturns in construction could adversely affect our business because more than half of our business is dependent on levels of new construction activity. More than half of our business involves the installation of electrical systems in newly constructed and renovated buildings, plants and residences. The construction industry is cyclical and downturns in levels of construction or housing starts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues from new installation services will depend on the number of new construction starts and renovations, which will likely correlate with the cyclical nature of the construction industry. The number of new building starts will be affected by local economic conditions, and other factors, including the following: • employment and income levels; • interest rates and other factors affecting the availability and cost of financing; • tax implications for homebuyers and commercial construction; • consumer confidence; • housing demand; and • commodity costs such as copper, steel, lumber and gasoline. 12 Table of Contents A majority of our business is focused in the southeastern and southwestern portions of the United States, concentrating our exposure to local economic conditions in those regions. Downturns in levels of construction or housing starts in these geographic areas could result in a material reduction in our activity levels. The residential construction portion of our business is beginning to see slowed growth and cost pressures which may affect the profitability of that portion of our business in some areas. • Completion of the jobs at the subsidiaries that IES determined to close could have a material adverse affect. Five companies were closed but work remained at those five companies that had to be completed. This work has continued to lose money as many employees left for other positions before the work was completed. The high turnover resulted in loss of productivity, loss of continuity and familiarity with the job and additional training costs. Although the cost to complete such work is down to less than $4.1 million, there are still potentially future losses. The losses can result in covenant violations under the credit facility and the term loan as both have shut-down covenants. • The highly competitive nature of our industry could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The electrical contracting industry is served by many small, owner-operated private companies, public companies and several large regional companies. We could also face competition in the future from new competitors entering these markets because electrical contracting has a relatively low capital requirement for entry. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. • There is a shortage of qualified electricians. Since the majority of our work is performed by electricians, this shortage may negatively impact our business, including our ability to grow. There is a shortage of qualified electricians in the United States. In order to conduct our business, it is necessary to employ electricians and have those electricians qualified in the states where they do business. While overall economic growth has diminished, our ability to increase productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled electricians required to meet our needs. Accordingly there can be no assurance, among other things, that: • we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently; • our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the skilled labor supply; and • we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to implement our planned internal growth and respond to improving construction market and work from the hurricane damaged Gulf Coast region. • Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in residential construction. Untimely weather delay from rain, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Additionally, increases in construction materials such as steel and lumber can alter the rate of new construction. • The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. 13 Table of Contents We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of gasoline, labor and materials, however, may vary significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. • Commodity costs may fluctuate materially and the company many not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices and if the cost associated with commodities such as copper, steel, gasoline and certain plastics increase, the companies expect profit may decline under that contract. • We may experience difficulties in managing consolidations. We expect to expend significant time and effort managing and merging existing operations. We cannot guarantee that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support operations, including the timely receipt of financial information. As we have consolidated some support functions of human resources, payroll, estimating, safety, accounting, and other administrative support functions it has offered some cost savings. Those savings only arise after the consolidations and after additional time and effort managing that consolidation. • We may experience difficulties in managing our working capital. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain benchmarks and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those benchmarks have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations if this occurred over several large projects. • To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales and that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms could materially adversely affect our business. • We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by numerous tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We believe that we have adequate reserves in the event that a taxing authority differs with positions we have taken, however, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected. • Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” established 14 Table of Contents accounting and reporting requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill attributable to each of four reporting units be tested at least annually (absent any impairment indicators). The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis (absent any impairment indicators), we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually during the last fiscal quarter of each year. Impairment adjustments recognized after adoption, if any, generally are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. • Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery caused injuries, mechanical failures or transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. No assurance can be given either that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. • The loss of a group of key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our current and future executive officers, senior management and management personnel at the companies. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. During these volatile times we have an increased risk of employees departing. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a company, our operations could be adversely affected. We do not maintain key man life insurance. • We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facilities and term loan. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in the term loan or the credit facility. We have already been required to amend the credit facility to adjust covenants for the shut down companies. A failure to fulfill the terms may result in a default under one or more of the material agreements. • The loss of productivity, either at the corporate office or operating level, could adversely affect our business. Our business is primarily driven by labor. The ability to perform contracts at acceptable margins depends on our ability to deliver substantial labor productivity. We cannot guarantee that productivity will continue at acceptable levels at our corporate office and our operating subsidiaries for a particular period of time. With the increased activity of de-levering our balance sheet and the uncertainty in the market there is an increased difficulty in maintaining morale and focus of employees. The loss of productivity could adversely affect the margins on existing contracts or the ability to obtain new contracts. • Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are always claims and litigation. Latent defect litigation is a normal course for residential home builders in some parts of the country. Legislation in other states indicate such litigation may increase to those states. There is also the inherent claims and litigation risk of the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road everyday. Those claims and litigation risks are managed through safety programs, insurance programs, litigation management at the corporate office and the local level and attorneys and law firms throughout the country. Nevertheless, claims 15 Table of Contents are sometimes made and lawsuits filed and some for amounts in excess of their value or amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. Because of the large number of claims of a company with so many contracts and employees, there can be periods of time where a disproportionate amount of the claims and litigation may come to the point of resolution through the court system, arbitration, mediation, or settlement all in the same quarter or year. If these matters resolve near the same time then the cumulative effect can be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect litigation is increasing in states where we perform work. Such increases can put additional pressure on the profitability of the residential segment of our business. Independent of the normal litigation risks, as a result IES’ inability to timely file its third quarter Form 10-Q and the subsequent events, a class action lawsuit has been filed, and a formal SEC investigation is ongoing. Those matters are discussed in more detail in Item 3 of this document. • The sale of subsidiaries may expose us to losses. We determined to sell all or substantially all of the assets of certain wholly owned subsidiaries. Those sales were made to facilitate the business needs and purposes of the organization as a whole. Since we were a consolidator of electrical contracting businesses, often the best candidate to purchase those assets was a previous owner of those assets. That previous owner may sometimes still be associated with the subsidiary as an officer of that subsidiary. To facilitate the desired timing, the sales were being made with more than ordinary reliance on the representations of the purchaser, who is often the person most familiar with the business unit being sold. There is the potential in retaining our corporate legal entity where we have sold substantially all of the assets. If the purchaser is unwilling or unable to perform the transferred liabilities, we may be forced to fulfill obligations that were assumed by others. We would then seek reimbursement from the parties that assumed those liabilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 