D. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations are dependent on coal markets, which may be cyclical. As the majority of our revenue is derived from sales of coal and coal-related products, our business and operating results are substantially dependent on the domestic and international demand for coal. The domestic and international coal markets are cyclical and exhibit fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year and are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the economic conditions in the PRC, the global economic conditions and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the power and steel industries. Fluctuations in supply and demand for coal have effects on coal prices which in turn affect our operating and financial performance. We have experienced substantial price fluctuations in the past and believe that such fluctuations will continue. The average selling price of our coal products per tonne was RMB172.4 in 2003, RMB272.3 in 2004 and RMB349.5 in 2005. The demand for coal is primarily affected by the overall economic development and the demand for coal from the electricity generation, steel and construction industries. The supply of coal on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of the coal supplies, the volume of coal produced by the domestic and international coal suppliers, and the quality and price of competing sources of coal. Alternative fuels such as natural gas, oil and nuclear power, alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, and international shipping costs also have effects on the market demand for coal. Excess supply of coal or significant reduction in the demand for our coal by the foreign or domestic electricity generation or steel industries may have an adverse effect on coal prices which would in turn cause a decline in our profitability. In addition, any significant decline in domestic or export coal prices could also materially and adversely affect our business and result of operations. Our business relies on our major customers. Prior to 2004, Shandong Power and Fuel Company was our largest domestic customer. For the year ended December 31, 2003, our sales to Shandong Power and Fuel Company accounted for 11.3% of our total net sales in 2003. The Shandong Power and Fuel Company had in the past purchased coal on behalf of several electric power plants in Shandong Province, including Zouxian Electric Power Plant. The Shandong Power and Fuel Company ceased to act as the central procurement center for coal on behalf of Zouxian Electric Power Plant and other electric power plants in Shandong Province after its restructuring at the end of 2003 and ceased to be our largest domestic customer. For the year ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, Huadian Power International Corporation Limited (“Huadian”) replaced Shandong Power and Fuel Company and became our largest domestic customer. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we supplied a total of 4.9 million and 5.6 million tonnes, representing 9.2% and 13.4% of our total net sales in 2004 and 2005, to our largest domestic customer. A substantial portion of Huadian’s coal purchases was supplied to Zouxian Electric Power Plant. Our sales of coal to Zouxian Electric Power Plant accounted for 9.6%, 9.5% and 13.2% of our total net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. The Zouxian Electric Power Plant’s total coal requirements were approximately 6.6 million tonnes in 2005. We estimated that we supplied approximately 77.0%, 92.3% and 83.6% of the Zouxian Electric Power Plant’s coal requirements in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We believe we are likely to remain the 7 Table of Contents Zouxian Electric Power Plant’s principal coal supplier because (i) we are located within close proximity to the Zouxian Electric Power Plant, (ii) the Zouxian Electric Power Plant is unable to receive railway shipments of coal other than through our own railway network and (iii) the Zouxian Electric Power Plant’s boilers were designed to use our coal. Given the large percentage of our revenues derived from the supply of coal to the Zouxian Electric Power Plant, any adverse developments at the Zouxian Electric Power Plant could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We do not have direct export rights. Currently, we do not have direct export rights. As a result, all of our export sales must be made through intermediary export sales companies. We use export sales service provided by the following three companies: China Coal Energy Group Company, China National Minerals Import and Export Company Limited and Shanxi Coal Import and Export Group Company (collectively, the “Export Sales Companies”). The quantity, quality, prices and final customer destination of our export sales are determined by us, the Export Sales Companies and overseas coal purchasers. As a result, we do not directly control matters such as port storage, loading, unloading and shipping processes. Although we are in the process of applying to the PRC central government, with the assistance of the Shandong provincial government, for direct export rights, there can be no assurance that we can obtain such rights. If we cannot obtain such direct export rights, we will have to continue reply on the intermediary export sales companies to export our coal. In addition, as export sales represent a significant percentage of our total sales, any material changes in the international coal market could adversely affect our export sales and results of operations. Our business relies on short-term sales contracts and letters of intent. The PRC government undertook measures in recent years to introduce market-oriented mechanisms to the coal sale and purchase process, including for example, abolishing government-devised pricing guidance for thermal coal and other temporary price intervention measures and permit the suppliers and buyers to determine pricing through discussions. Major domestic coal suppliers and coal purchasers attend the Annual National Coal Trading Convention to negotiate and discuss the price and quantity of coal to be supplied and purchased for the coming year through the signing of letters of intent and short- and long-term supply contracts. Approximately 86.0%, 88.5% and 87.0% of our sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, were derived from such sales contracts and letters of intent. These sales contracts and letters of intent generally specify the quantities and timing of purchases planned over a time period generally no longer than one year. Prices with respect to purchases made under the letters of intent are generally determined at the time of sale based on mutual agreement between us and the relevant customers. Such letters of intent may not be enforceable due to their omission of certain material terms. In addition, the PRC government also adopted measures to ensure adequate allocation of railway transportation capacity to major coal suppliers and buyers and to improve market efficiency by permitting direct negotiation between the suppliers and buyers. In the past, we and our customers have completed the majority of the transactions contemplated under such letters of intent. However, a sudden and significant increase in the proportion of unrealized sales could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, as the price of coal sold pursuant to such letters of intent is generally determined at the time of sale, any significant downturn in the market price of coal could have an immediate and adverse impact on our results of operations. Our product delivery relies on the PRC’s railway transportation system. Approximately 60.1%, 60.0% and 53.6% of our total net sales in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, were derived from sales of coal transported by the PRC’s national railway system (excluding coal sold to the Zouxian Electric Power Plant, which were transported entirely by and within our own railway network). As the railway system has limited transportation capacity and cannot fully satisfy coal transportation requirements, discrepancies between capacity and demand for transportation exist in certain areas of the PRC. Currently, our domestic customers are mainly located in Eastern China, where the railway system is relatively advanced. We generally utilize the national rail system to transport coal to our customers as well as major coal shipping ports in the eastern coast of China for transshipping to customers in the coastal region of China and overseas. No assurance can be given that we will continue to be allocated adequate railway transport capacity or acquire adequate rail cars, or that we will not experience any material delay in transporting our coal as a result of insufficient railway transport capacity or rail cars. 8 Table of Contents The coal reserve data in this annual report are only estimates. The coal reserve data provided by us are only estimates which may differ materially from the actual in-place proven and probable reserves. Our reserves estimates may change substantially if new information subsequently becomes available. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves, including many factors, assumptions and variables involved in estimating reserves that are beyond our control. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from our long-term business and operational plans derived based on the estimated coal reserve data. We can not assure you that we will not adjust our coal reserve estimates in the future, and in such event, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is increasing and our business and prospects will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. We face competition in all areas of our business. Competition in the coal industry is based on many factors, including price, production capacity, coal quality and characteristics, transportation capability and costs, blending capability and brand name. Our coal business competes in the domestic and international markets with other large domestic coal producers and certain major international coal mining companies. Some of our overseas competitors may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do, and more well-known brand names in the international markets. We currently compete favorably on the quality of our coal products. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to compete favorably due to quality improvements by our competitors. Although we believe that we compete favorably with respect to transportation capability and costs, due to insufficient rail capacity for the transportation of coal from Shanxi Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (where our principal competitors are located) to Eastern China (where demand for coal has been most strong) and the significant costs incurred in transporting coal from these regions to Eastern China, improvements in the PRC national rail network will reduce our competitive advantage in transportation. For example, the PRC Government is planning to construct additional railways to transport coal from Northern and Northwestern China to Eastern China. Accordingly, the completion of these projects may increase the supply of coal available to customers in Eastern China, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions. As with all underground coal mining companies, our operations are affected by mining conditions such as a deterioration in the quality or thickness of faults and/or coal seams, pressure in mine openings, presence of gas and/or water inflow and propensity to spontaneous combustion, as well as operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activity, such as mechanical breakdowns. Although we have conducted geological investigations to evaluate such mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to address them, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of any adverse mining conditions would not result in an increase in our costs of production, a reduction of our coal output or the temporary suspension of our operations. Underground mining is also subject to certain risks such as methane outbursts, and accidents caused by roof weakness and groundfalls. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Results of our operations depend on our ability to acquire or develop new coal mines or coal reserves. Our recoverable coal reserves decline as we produce coal. As we can only increase our existing production capacity by a limited amount, the future increase in our coal production will depend on our acquisition of new coal reserves, development of new mines or the expansion of our existing coal mines. We acquired Jining III Coal Mine and Southland Colliery in 2001 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, we further acquired 95.67% of the equity interest in Heze Nenghua from our Parent Company and are currently developing Zhaolou Coal Mine in Juye Coal Field and other new mining projects in Shaanxi Province. However, we can not give any assurance that we will be able to continue identifying suitable targets in the PRC or abroad for acquisition or acquire suitable targets on competitive terms. Nor can we assure you that we will be able to successfully develop new coal mines or expand our existing ones in accordance with our development proposal or at all. Our failure to timely or successfully acquire suitable target on competitive terms, or to successfully complete the development of new coal mines or to expand our existing coal mines could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 9 Table of Contents The acquisition and/or the development of new mines in the PRC and overseas requires approval of the PRC government. Delay or failure in securing the relevant PRC government approvals or permits as well as any adverse change in government policies may cause a significant adjustment to our development and acquisition plans, which may materially adversely affect our profitability and growth prospects. In addition, we could encounter unforeseen problems due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, or suffer foreign exchange losses in connection with overseas investments. We cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful. We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance. We operate coal mines and related facilities that may be affected by water, gas, fire or structural problems. As a result, we, like other coal mining companies, have experienced accidents that have caused property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities and provided on-the-job training for our employees, and, we have in accordance with relevant laws set aside approximately 2.0% of employees’ total remuneration for employees’ injury insurance, there can be no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. We do not currently maintain fire, casualty or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment or inventories, other than with respect to vehicles. In addition, we do not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties, other than third party liability insurance with respect to vehicles. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to allocate additional funds for land subsidence. A consequence of the underground mining methods used at our mines is land subsidence above underground mining sites. Depending on the circumstances, we may relocate inhabitants from the land above the underground mining sites prior to mining those sites or we may compensate the inhabitants for losses or damages from land subsidence after the underground sites have been mined. We may also be required to make payments for restoration, rehabilitation or environmental protection of the land after the underground sites have been mined. An estimate of such costs is recognized in the period in which the obligation is identified and is charged as an expense in our income statement in proportion to the coal extracted. The payment for such costs is funded from working capital. The amount charged to income statements in 2005 amounted to RMB636.6 million. The provision for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs has been determined by the directors based on the past occurrences of land subsidence. However, the provision is only an estimate. The estimate of the costs for restoration, rehabilitation or environmental protection of the land may be subject to change in the future as the actual costs become apparent and standards established by the PRC Government change from time to time. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such estimates are accurate or that our restoration, rehabilitation and relocation costs will not substantially increase in the future or that the PRC Government will not impose new fees in respect of land subsidence. Any such substantial increases or new fees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As a producer of coal products, we are subject to significant, extensive, and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations: • impose fees for the discharge of waste substances; • require the establishment of reserves for reclamation and rehabilitation; • require the payment of fines for serious environmental offences; and • allow the PRC Government, at its discretion, to close any facility that fails to comply with orders requiring it to correct or stop operations causing environmental damage. Our coal mining operations produce significant amounts of waste water, gas and solid waste materials. Currently, the PRC Government is moving toward more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws and regulations as well as the adoption and enforcement of more stringent environmental standards. Our budgeted amounts of capital expenditure for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient and we may need to allocate additional funds for such purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future 10 Table of Contents environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. In addition, China is a signatory to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which are intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Efforts to control greenhouse gas emission in China could result in reduced use of coal if power generators switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions, which in turn could reduce the revenues of our coal business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. New quotas for coal exports in the PRC may adversely affect the amount of our coal exports. Export sales of coal accounted for 36.2%, 28.5% and 25.8% of our net sales of coal in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Average selling prices for export coal sales are generally higher than average selling prices for domestic sales. In 2005, average selling prices for export sales were RMB404.3 per tonne, compared to average selling prices for domestic sales of RMB333.7 per tonne. In January 2004, the PRC Government promulgated new regulations, entitled “Measures for the Administration of Quotas for Coal Export,” which take effect on July 1, 2004. Under the new regulations, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce will be responsible for determining the total volume of the PRC’s export quota of coal and allocating the quota among the authorized coal exporters. Under the regulations, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce are required to announce the total export quota available for each fiscal year by not later than October 31 of the prior year. After the total available export quota has been announced, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce will accept written applications from authorized coal exporters for allocation of specific export quotas for the following year. The new regulations did not have a material adverse effect on our export sales in 2004 and 2005 as our export agents have consistently receive export quota sufficient to satisfy our export volume. However, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, they may have on the level of our export coal sales for 2006 and later years. Article 10 of the regulations provides that, in determining the allocation of specific quotas to authorized coal exporters, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce will refer to the exporters’ respective coal export performances in the previous year. We have been one of the largest coal exporters in China. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, our export sales of coal accounted for approximately 14.5%, 11.6% and 10.2%, respectively, of the total coal export sales in China during the same period. Although our export sales have not been affected by the new regulations, if national coal exports are reduced, the level of our export sales in future periods could be affected, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Parent Company may have a significant influence on us. As at March 31, 2006, the Parent Company owned 52.86% of our outstanding shares. Our Articles of Association provide that, in addition to any obligation imposed by law, a controlling shareholder shall not exercise its voting rights in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the shareholders generally, including voting with respect to certain enumerated matters of fundamental importance to shareholders. In addition to being our majority shareholder, the Parent Company also provides certain materials, utilities and services to us pursuant to the materials and services supply agreement dated October 17, 1997 between us and the Parent Company (as amended by supplemental agreements dated October 30, 2001 and May 29, 2003). Pursuant to the regulations of Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Shanghai Stock Exchange on on-going connected transactions and the operation developments of us and the Parent Company, we completed the review of its on-going connected transactions as required by law and entered into six new on-going connected transaction agreements (“New On-going Connected Transaction Agreements”) with the Parent Company in the first quarter 2006. It also determined the caps on the connected transactions for each New On-going Connected Transaction Agreements in each year (“the Annual Caps”) from 2006 to 2008. For details of the New On-going Connected Transactions, please see “Item 7 — Related Party Transaction.” Any material financial or operational problems experienced by the Parent Company leading to disruption of its operations could materially affect our operations and future prospects. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC. We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: • The central and local PRC governments continue to support the development and operation of coal industry in China. If the PRC Government changes its current policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face significant constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. • Under current PRC regulatory requirements, our projects for the development of new coal mines require PRC Government approval. If any of our important projects required for our growth or cost reduction are not approved, or are not approved on a timely basis, our financial condition and operating performances could be adversely affected. • The PRC Government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform its economic system. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the PRC Government such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. • Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars has generally been stable. On July 21, 2005, however, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system. Under the reform, Renminbi is no longer effectively linked to US dollars but instead is allowed to trade in a tight 0.3% band against a basket of foreign currencies. Any further appreciation of Renminbi in the future will increase the cost of our export sales, reduce our account receivables denominated in foreign currencies and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, any devaluation of the Renminbi may adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our H shares and ADSs in foreign currencies since we receive our revenues and denominate our profits in Renminbi. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than Renminbi in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the Renminbi is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations. • Since 1997, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in the PRC. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, PRC’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of PRC’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our coal operations are extensively regulated by the PRC Government and government regulations may limit our activities and adversely affect our business operations. Our coal operations, like those of other PRC energy companies, are subject to extensive regulation established by the PRC Government. Central governmental authorities, such as the National Development and Reform Commission, the State Environmental Protection Administration, the Ministry of Land and Resources, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety, the and the State Bureau of Taxation, and provincial and local authorities and agencies exercise extensive control over various aspects of China’s coal mining and transportation (including rail and sea transport). These controls affect the following material aspects of our operations: • exploration, exploitation and mining rights and licensing; • rehabilitation of mining sites after mining is completed; 12 Table of Contents • recovery rate requirements; • pricing of our transport services; • industry-specific taxes and fees; • target of our capital investments; • export quotas and procedures; • pension funds appropriation; • waivers of certain import tariffs on our supplies; and • environmental and safety standards. We may face significant constraints on our ability to implement our business strategies or to carry out or expand our business operations. Our business may also be materially and adversely affected by future changes in certain regulations and policies of the PRC Government in respect of the coal industry. New legislation or regulations may be adopted that may materially and adversely affect our coal operations, our cost structure or the demand for our products. In addition, new legislation or regulations or different or more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations may also require us to substantially change our existing operations or incur significant costs. 