Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks we have highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and no assurance of future profitability. We have incurred losses in each of the last nine fiscal years. We had a net loss of $9,557,655 for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2007, and a net loss of $5,531,220 for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2006. As of December 25, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $25,748,721. We will incur additional losses until we are able to expand to a point at which we are able to leverage our operating expenses across a substantially larger revenue base. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business plan. Even if we substantially increase our revenue, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flow. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future because our operating results can be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, economic conditions in our markets, and the level of competition in our markets. We have significant future capital needs and cannot give assurance that financing will be available in the future. We require significant capital in order to open additional restaurants. If our available sources of liquidity are insufficient to fund our expected capital needs, or our needs are greater than anticipated, we will be required to raise additional funds in the future through public or private sales of equity securities or the incurrence of indebtedness. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from current operations or if financing is not available to us, we will have to curtail projected growth, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we may be affected by changes in interest rates based on our financing activities. Changes in interest rates could materially impact our operating results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain future financing on favorable terms or at all. If we elect to raise additional capital through the issuance and sale of equity securities, the sales may be at prices below the market price of our common stock, and our shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to expand in a timely and profitable manner. To continue to grow, we must open new restaurants on a timely and profitable 11 basis. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. Our future expansion may be delayed or curtailed: •if we are unable to obtain acceptable equipment financing of restaurants; •if future cash flows from operations fail to meet our expectations; •if costs and capital expenditures for new restaurant development exceed anticipated amounts; •if we incur unanticipated expenditures related to our operations; or •if we are required to reduce prices to respond to competitive pressures. We estimate that our cost of opening a new Granite City Food & Brewery restaurant currently ranges from $1.0 million to $1.3 million. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant, conditions in the local real estate and employment markets, and leasing arrangements. Even with adequate financing, we may experience delays in restaurant openings which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to expand successfully depends upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •identification and availability of suitable restaurant sites; •competition for restaurant sites; •securing required governmental approvals, licenses and permits; •the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; and •recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly general managers and kitchen managers. In addition, we contemplate entering geographic markets in which we have no prior operating experience. These new markets may have demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns different than those present in our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than our existing restaurants. Our geographic concentration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently operate restaurants in the Midwestern United States and may be particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this geographic market, including its labor market, which could adversely affect our impact on our operating results. Less mature restaurants, once opened, may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue. Less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and as a percentage of revenue when compared to mature restaurants due to the inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants. These include operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation. Further, some, or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. Unexpected costs or delays in the development or construction of our restaurants could prevent our timely and cost-effective opening of new restaurants. We rely upon contractors for the construction of our restaurants. After construction, we invest heavily in leasehold improvements for completion of our restaurants. Many factors could adversely affect our cost and time associated with development of restaurants, including: •availability of labor; 12 •shortages of construction materials and skilled labor; •management of construction and development costs of new restaurants; •adverse weather; •unforeseen construction problems; •availability of utility services; •environmental problems; •zoning problems; •federal, state and local government regulations, including licensing requirements; •modifications in design; and •other increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns which may prevent us from developing additional restaurants within anticipated budgets and expected development schedules. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to manage planned expansion. We face many business risks associated with our proposed growth, including the risk that our existing management, information systems and financial controls will be inadequate to support our planned expansion. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and these systems and controls. Our growth also will place increased demands on human resources, purchasing and restaurant opening teams. If we fail to continue to improve management, information systems and financial controls, or if we encounter unexpected difficulties during expansion, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy and/or maintain current levels of operating performance in existing restaurants. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. Our leases generally have initial terms of 20 years and generally can be extended only in five-year increments (at increased rates) if at all. All of our leases require a fixed annual rent, although some require the payment of additional contingent rent if restaurant sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are "triple net" leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Additional sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of our leases expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Expanding our restaurant base by opening new restaurants in existing markets could reduce the business of our existing restaurants. Our growth strategy includes opening restaurants in markets in which we already have existing restaurants. We may be unable to attract enough customers to the new restaurants for them to operate at a profit. Even if we are able to attract enough customers to the new restaurants to operate them at a profit, those customers may be former customers of one of our existing restaurants in that market and the opening of new restaurants in the existing market could reduce the revenue of our existing restaurants in that market. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the second and third quarters of each year. As a result, it is probable that our 13 quarterly operating results and comparable restaurant sales will continue to fluctuate as a result of seasonality. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales of any particular future period may decrease. You should not rely on past increases in our average restaurant revenue or our comparable restaurant sales as an indication of future operating results because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors historically have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our average restaurant revenue and/or comparable restaurant sales, including, among other factors: •our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; •initial sales performance by new restaurants; •the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; •levels of competition in one or more of our markets; and •general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Our average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales may not increase at rates achieved over recent periods. Changes in our average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Our profitability depends in large measure on food, beverage and supply costs which are not within our control. We must anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. We believe that the restaurant industry as a whole experienced increased food costs during 2007 and we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. We are also subject to the general risks of inflation. Our restaurants' operating margins are further affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the restaurants depend for their energy supply. The failure to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages, increased food and beverage costs, and quality control problems. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with distributors or suppliers of our food or beverage products. If the national distributor that provides food and beverages to all our restaurants, or other distributors or suppliers, cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. If these alternative suppliers do not meet our specifications, the consistency and quality of our food and beverage offerings, and thus our reputation, guest patronage, revenue and results of operations, could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu prices to address cost increases could result in a decline in margins. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for food commodities (such as pork, beef, fish, poultry and dairy products), minimum 14 wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, energy, fuel, and other costs. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants or affect their purchasing decisions. If we are unsuccessful at raising prices, our business and operating results could be harmed. The need for additional advertising may arise, which could increase our operating expenses. We have generally relied on our high profile locations, operational excellence, "word-of-mouth," and limited paid advertising to attract and retain restaurant guests. Should we conclude that paid advertising is necessary to attract and retain guests, our operating expenses could increase and our financial results could be adversely affected. A decline in visitors to any of the regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers or entertainment centers near our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our restaurants are primarily located near high activity areas such as regional malls, lifestyle centers, big box shopping centers and entertainment centers. We depend on a high volume of visitors at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. Our success also depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. If the number of visitors to these centers declines due to any of these factors or otherwise, our restaurant sales could decline significantly which would adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in consumer preferences as a result of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health could negatively impact our results. Our operating results may be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, general economic and political conditions and the level of competition in our markets. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of micro-brewed beers and casual, broad menu restaurants. Shifts in consumer preferences away from these beers and this dining style could materially adversely affect any future profitability. In addition, our success depends on our ability to adapt our menu to trends in food consumption. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could materially affect demand for our menu offerings resulting in lost customers and an adverse impact on our results of operations. Health concerns or negative publicity regarding our restaurants or food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning E. coli, "mad cow" or "foot-and-mouth" disease, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in discretionary consumer spending could negatively impact our results. Our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. In a weak economy, our customers may reduce their level of discretionary spending which could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend when they do dine out, thereby reducing our revenue. Adverse economic conditions could reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 We may be unable to recruit, motivate and retain qualified employees. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including trained brewing personnel, restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff, to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions could be in short supply in one or more of our markets. In addition, our success depends upon the skill and experience of our restaurant-level management teams. Our inability to recruit, motivate and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in high employee turnover in existing restaurants, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of members of our senior management and certain other key employees. Competition for employees with such specialized training and deep backgrounds in the restaurant industry is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. In addition, we cannot assure you that employees will not leave or compete against us. If the services of any member of management become unavailable for any reason, it could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to successfully compete with other restaurants in our markets. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. There are many well-established competitors with greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of such competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants, or in which we intend to establish restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants with similar concepts in our markets. Any inability to successfully compete with restaurants in our markets could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also need to make changes to our established concept in order to compete with new and developing restaurant concepts that become popular within our markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing such changes or that these changes will not reduce any future profitability. Our success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary information. Failure to protect our trademarks, service marks or trade secrets could adversely affect our business. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Granite City Food & Brewery name. Although our service marks are federally registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, our trademarks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. We rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate, however, and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our trade secrets, know-how, concepts and recipes. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties' rights that could interfere with our use of our proprietary know-how, concepts, recipes or trade secrets. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, including store managers, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our know-how, concepts, recipes or trade secrets, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Our operations depend upon governmental licenses or permits. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required food service, liquor and brewing licenses for each of our 16 restaurants. If we fail to hold all necessary licenses, we may be forced to delay or cancel new restaurant openings and close or reduce operations at existing locations. We must comply with federal licensing requirements imposed by the United States Department of Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, as well as licensing requirements of states and municipalities where we operate restaurants. Failure to comply with federal, state or local regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or force us to cease brewing and selling our beer. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked and suspended for cause at any time. State liquor and brewing laws may prevent or impede our expansion into certain markets. Although we do not anticipate any significant problems in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any delays or failures to obtain required licenses, permits or approvals could delay or prevent our expansion in a particular area. We are at risk that a state's regulations concerning brewery restaurants or the interpretation of these regulations may change. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase our operating costs and restrict our growth. We are subject to a variety of federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage and overtime pay requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates and citizenship requirements. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could increase our labor costs and reduce our operating margins. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. We may face liability under dram shop statutes. Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or prospective employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our profitability and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. Our operations and profitability are susceptible to the effects of violence, war and economic trends. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war and U.S. military reactions to such attacks may negatively affect our operations and an investment in our shares of common stock. Acts of violence or war could cause a decrease in travel and in consumer confidence, decrease consumer spending, result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy, or result in an economic recession in the United States or abroad. They could also impact consumer leisure habits, for example, by increasing time spent watching television news programs at home, and may reduce the number of times consumers dine out, which could adversely impact our revenue. Any of these occurrences could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations, and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and negatively affect the price of our common stock. 17 Terrorist attacks could also directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers, and attacks or armed conflicts may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and could ultimately affect our revenue. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. Additionally, changes to existing rules or current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we receive an adverse opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could be adversely affected. In addition to the above, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with their audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that they are unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy themselves as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we could receive a qualified or adverse audit opinion on those financial statements. In that event, the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. Because the value of our business depends primarily upon intangible assets, such as our business concept and development strategy, the value of your investment could decrease significantly in the event of liquidation. Because we do not own the real estate at any of our existing locations, we only own the building at one existing location, we lease much of the equipment we use, and we do not plan to own the real estate or buildings in which our future restaurants will be located, our tangible assets mainly consist of inventory. Until we establish a history of earnings, the value of our business that could be realized upon liquidation is comprised of intangible assets, including our business concept, development strategy, intellectual property, trademarks, goodwill and employee know-how. If our business is not successful, the value of our intangible assets could decrease significantly. The value of your investment could decrease as a result. Increases in state or federal minimum wage or required benefits could negatively impact our operating results. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees, including such matters as minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions. There have been increases in the federal and some state minimum wage requirements, and there may be additional increases in the future. A substantial majority of employees working in our restaurants receive salaries equal to the applicable minimum wage, and future increases in the minimum wage will increase our operating expenses. In addition, some states have periodically proposed laws that would require companies such as ours to provide health benefits to all employees. Additional governmental mandates such as an increased minimum wage, an increase in paid leaves of absence, extensions of health benefits or increased tax reporting and payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, could negatively impact our operating results. Limitations in our insurance coverage could adversely affect our operations in certain circumstances. We have comprehensive insurance, including workers' compensation, employee practices liability, general liability, fire and extended coverage and property insurance. However, there 18 are certain types of losses which may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Such hazards may include earthquake, hurricane and flood losses. If such a loss should occur, we would, to the extent that we are not covered for such loss by insurance, suffer a loss of the capital invested in, as well as anticipated profits and/or cash flow from, such damaged or destroyed properties. Punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance; thus, any awards of punitive damages as to which we may be liable could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business, to expand our operations or to develop additional restaurants. We cannot assure you that any insurance coverage we maintain will be adequate, that we can continue to obtain and maintain such insurance at all, or that the premium costs will not rise to an extent that they adversely affect us or our ability to economically obtain or maintain such insurance. Risks Related to our Securities Fluctuations in our operating results may decrease the price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including the timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses, profitability of new restaurants, increases or decreases in comparable restaurant sales, general economic conditions, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in consumer preferences, competitive factors and weather conditions. Consequently, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors for any given reporting period. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Shareholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. We cannot assure you of an active public market for our common stock. Selling our common stock may be difficult because of the quantity of shares that may be bought and sold, the possibility that transactions may be delayed, and a low level of security analyst and news media coverage. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Our existing shareholders have significant control which could reduce your ability to receive a premium for your shares through a change in control. As of March 1, 2008, our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 17.8% of our common stock. As a result, they may be able to control our company and direct our affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company, and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without their support. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other share purchases that could give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. As a result, this concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then current market price of our common stock. For example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of our common stock. In addition, our bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for nomination of candidates to our Board of Directors that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding "control share acquisitions" and "business combinations." We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board to issue undesignated preferred stock, our advance notice procedure for nominations, and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as any future 19 anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Directors. If we do not maintain our NASDAQ listing, you may have difficulty reselling our shares. We will need to maintain certain financial and corporate governance qualifications to keep our shares listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We cannot assure you that we will at all times meet the criteria for continued listing. If we fail to maintain such qualifications, including a minimum bid price of $1.00, our shares may be delisted. In the event of delisting, trading, if any, would be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or on the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our shares could become subject to the SEC's "penny stock rules." These rules would impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who effect trades in our shares, other than trades with their established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, the delisting of our shares and the applicability of the penny stock rules may adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our shares, which may adversely affect your ability to resell our shares. If any of these events take place, you may not be able to sell as many shares as you desire, you may experience delays in the execution of your transactions and our shares may trade at a lower market price than they otherwise would. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 