Item 1A. Risk Factors If LED lighting in general, and our intelligent LED lighting systems in particular, do not achieve greater market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited. Our future success depends on increased market acceptance of LED lighting generally, and of our intelligent LED lighting systems in particular. Potential customers for LED lighting systems may be reluctant to adopt LED lighting as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost and relatively low light output in comparison with the most powerful traditional lighting devices, or because of perceived risks relating to its novelty, complexity, reliability and quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness when compared to other lighting sources available in the market. These factors, along with others discussed below, could also adversely affect demand for our intelligent and simplified white light products. If acceptance of LED lighting in general, and of our intelligent LED lighting systems in particular, do not continue to grow, then opportunities to increase our revenues and operate profitably may be limited. If advances in LED technology do not continue, we may be unable to increase our penetration of our existing markets or expand into new markets. We do not design or manufacture LEDs. Our ability to continue penetrating our existing markets and to expand into new markets depends on continued advancements in the design and manufacture by others of LEDs. In the high performance color lighting markets that we currently serve, we rely on continued improvements in the brightness, efficiency and initial cost of color LEDs, particularly high brightness red, green and blue LEDs. In the white light market, we depend on improvements in the above factors and also in the color characteristics and source life of high brightness white LEDs. The continued development of LED technologies depends on other companies’ research and is out of our control. If advancements in LED technologies occur at a slower pace than we anticipate, or fail to occur at all, we may be unable to penetrate additional markets, our revenues will be significantly reduced, and our future prospects for success may be harmed. If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenues and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we will need to keep pace with rapid changes in LED technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. Development of new products incorporating advanced technology is a complex process subject to numerous uncertainties. We have in the past experienced, and could in the future experience, delays in introduction of new products. If new LED lighting devices are introduced that can be controlled by methods not covered by our proprietary technologies, or if effective new sources of light other than LED devices are discovered, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends and respond on a timely basis with our own innovations, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues to attain, or sustain, profitability. If demand for our white light products in the general lighting market fails to emerge, we may not be able to carry out long-term business strategies. Our long-term business strategy includes penetration of the general lighting market with our white light LED lighting products. Substantial demand may not develop for the use of LED lighting in the general lighting market. Obstacles to adoption of LED lighting in the general lighting market include the high initial cost of high brightness white LEDs and the need for further advances in brightness, color characteristics, efficiency and the predicted life of the LEDs before they require replacement. Failure of LED manufacturers to introduce on a timely basis high brightness white light LEDs having satisfactory performance, quality and cost characteristics could delay the further development and enhancement of our white light products, or reduce the attractiveness to potential customers of our white light products incorporating white light LEDs. 13 Table of Contents In addition, the characteristics of our intelligent LED lighting systems that we believe are desired by customers in the high performance color lighting markets may not provide us with competitive advantages in the general lighting market. For example, end-users in the general lighting market may not require the complex, dynamic lighting effects or sophisticated digital control that our intelligent LED lighting systems provide. Similarly, if LED manufacturers are able to develop single LEDs that produce white light of acceptable consistency and color, our digital color control technologies may be of less importance in the general lighting market than in the high performance color lighting market. We do not expect revenues from our white light products to contribute significantly to our total 2007 revenues. We have devoted, and intend to continue to devote, substantial resources to the development of white light products and technologies suitable for use in the general lighting market. If demand for these products and technologies in the general lighting market does not develop and we do not receive revenue to offset these expenditures, our profitability would be harmed and our ability to carry out our long-term business strategy would be adversely affected. Because we have a limited history of profitable operations and typically do not have a substantial backlog, it is difficult to evaluate the likelihood that we will maintain profitability in any future period. We recorded net income of $2.4 million in 2004, $4.3 million in 2005 and $3.2 million in 2006. However, prior to 2004 we had never achieved profitability on an annual basis, and our limited operating history makes an evaluation of our future prospects difficult. Since inception, we have incurred significant net losses. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $26.4 million. We expect our research and development, sales and marketing, litigation, and general and administrative expenses to increase. Unless our revenues increase commensurately, we will not be able to continue to operate profitably. If we do not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues or sustain profitability in the future, our stock price may be adversely affected. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed and cannot rapidly be reduced if we experience an unexpected shortfall in our revenue in any quarter. Forecasting our revenues is difficult, as we generally do not enter into agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our LED lighting products; instead, our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and we generally permit orders to be canceled or rescheduled without significant penalty. In addition, due to the absence of long-term volume purchase agreements, we forecast our revenues and plan our production and inventory levels based upon our OEM customers, manufacturers’ representatives and distributors’ demand forecasts, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. If our OEM customers, manufacturers’ representatives or distributors fail to accurately forecast the demand for our products, or fail to accurately forecast the timing of such demand, or are unable to consistently achieve acceptable purchase order terms with their customers, we might not meet our forecasts, or those of investors or analysts, for a particular quarter which could cause our stock price to fall. Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us. Despite testing by our customers, and by us, errors have been found and may be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationship with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our LED lighting products and would likely harm our business. Some of our products use line voltages of 100 or 240 volts, or are designed for installation in environments such as swimming pools and spas, which involve enhanced risk of electrical shock, injury or death in the event of a short circuit or other malfunction. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our LED lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers or could damage market acceptance of our products. We have only recently begun to translate installation instructions into certain foreign languages; this lack of translation may contribute to integration and operation errors, and may result in serious injury or death. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. 14 Table of Contents If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. We outsource the manufacture of our LED lighting systems, and do not own or operate a manufacturing facility. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in various locations, primarily in China. These manufacturers supply all necessary raw materials (other than certain critical components such as LEDs and ASICs, which we procure directly), and provide all necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us without adequate notice, or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our LED lighting products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To mitigate these risks, we have qualified multiple contract manufacturers to produce our products. However, to qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production is a costly and time-consuming process, which can take as long as six to nine months. If it became necessary to do so, we may not be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain additional risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; • risk of loss of inventory while in transit by ship from China; and • risks associated with international commerce, particularly with China, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies, risks associated with the protection of intellectual property and political and economic instability. Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, limited revenue growth and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. We face substantial competition, and our failure to compete effectively could harm our business and our prospects for future success. Our intelligent and simplified LED lighting systems and OEM components compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. Additionally, in the high performance color lighting markets in which we have primarily competed to date, competition has largely been fragmented among a number of small manufacturers of LED systems. However, we are increasingly experiencing, in particular in Europe and Asia, competition from larger, more established companies in the general lighting industry. Moreover, in the white light market, particularly as we introduce white light products for use in general lighting applications, such as retrofit lamps for standard fixtures, we expect to encounter competition from an even greater number of companies, especially the large, established companies in the general lighting industry such as General Electric, Matsushita, Osram Sylvania and Philips Lighting, each of which has, we believe, undertaken initiatives to develop white light LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting systems than we do. We may also face competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, such as Genlyte Group, Lithonia Lighting, Hubbell Lighting, and Cooper Lighting. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems that might not infringe our patents. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. Additionally, to the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our revenues and profitability, and our future prospects for success, may be harmed. 15 Table of Contents We may incur substantial costs or lose important rights as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries, including our own. Since many patent applications are retained in secrecy by the U.S. Patent Office until and unless a patent issues or the application is published, it is not possible for us to know whether U.S. patent applications are pending that would be infringed by the use of our technologies or a part thereof, thus substantially interfering with the future conduct of our business. In addition, there may be issued patents in the U.S. or other countries that are pertinent to our business of which we are not aware. We have from time to time been notified of claims that we may be infringing patents or intellectual property rights owned by third parties. We could be sued by such parties, or others, for patent infringement in the future. Such lawsuits could subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In addition, intellectual property lawsuits may be brought by third parties against OEM customers that incorporate our LED lighting technologies in their products. In addition to being subject to claims by third parties that we infringe their proprietary rights, we have in the past asserted, and may in the future assert, our intellectual property rights by instituting legal proceedings against others. We are currently the plaintiff in two patent infringement lawsuits, both against TIR. We may not be successful in enforcing our patents in those or any other lawsuits we may commence. Defendants in any litigation we commence to enforce our patents may attempt to establish that our patents are invalid or are unenforceable, as the defendant in our current patent infringement lawsuits is seeking to do. Thus, any patent litigation we commence could lead to a determination that one or more of our patents are invalid or unenforceable. If a third party succeeds in invalidating one or more of our patents, that party and others could compete more effectively against us. Our ability to derive OEM and licensing revenues from products or technologies covered by the invalidated patent could also be adversely affected. Our three issued European patents have been opposed by third parties (EP 1 016 062 B1 by Insta Electro GmbH, Vossloh-Schwabe Wustlich GmbH & Co. KG, TridonicAtco GmbH & Co. KG, Public Screen & Lightsystems AG, and Rena Electronica B.V.; EP 1 234 140 B1 by Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., TridonicAtco GmbH & Co. KG, ERCO Leuchten GmbH, and Osram GmbH; and EP 1 224 845 B1 by ERCO Leuchten GmbH and Zumtobel Lighting GmbH). The European Patent Office allows an issued patent to be opposed by third parties alleging that such patent is invalid and thus should be revoked or amended. There is no timetable by which the European Patent Office must respond to a third party opposition. Although such patents continue to be valid and enforceable during such opposition period, the European Patent Office may revoke any such patent, or require it to be amended in a material manner. Whether we are defending the assertion of intellectual property rights against us or asserting our own intellectual property rights against others, such litigation can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of our management and key technical personnel. As a result, the pendency or adverse outcome of any intellectual property litigation to which we are subject could disrupt our business operations, require the incurrence of substantial costs and subject us to significant liabilities, each of which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief. Any intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business, including the following: • stop selling LED lighting systems or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign products that embody the allegedly infringing intellectual property. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to manufacture and sell our LED lighting systems, which could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to develop, license or acquire non-infringing technology under reasonable terms, if at all. These developments would result in an inability to compete for customers and would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. The measure of damages in 16 Table of Contents intellectual property litigation can be complex, and is often subjective or uncertain. If we were to be found liable for infringement of proprietary rights of a third party, the amount of damages we might have to pay could be substantial and is difficult to predict. As is commonplace in technology companies, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other technology companies. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas which are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technologies and otherwise protect our intellectual property, the value of our technologies and products will be adversely affected. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. At December 31, 2006, we had 58 issued patents. These patents will begin to expire on various dates beginning in 2017. In addition, we have approximately 170 pending patent applications. Because the patent position of technology companies involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Our issued patents may be invalidated or their enforceability challenged, they may be designed around, and they may not provide us with competitive advantages against others with similar products and technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or technology or duplicate or design around any technologies that we have developed. Although we have filed a number of patent applications in Japan, to date we have not been successful in obtaining an issued patent in Japan; thus our competitors there are not currently subject to infringement risk to the same degree competitors in countries where we have obtained patent protection. We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual arrangements and the use of trade secret laws. Our employees and consultants generally enter into agreements containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while in our employ. The protection offered by patents or trade secret laws or by these agreements may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and existing or future patents could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the laws of many foreign countries, including China, where most of our contract manufacturers are located, do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If critical components that we currently purchase from a small number of suppliers become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment, which could damage our business. We depend on a small number of suppliers for certain components critical to the operation of our LED lighting systems. For some of these components, we have only a single qualified supplier. For example, we currently purchase all the ASICs used in our Chromasic products from a single vendor, which manufactures them to our design. ASICs are specialized semiconductor devices that are designed to efficiently perform a particular task that is required by their intended application. For certain types of LEDs used in our lighting systems, we currently have only one qualified vendor. Our LED vendors include established companies such as Cree, Lumileds Lighting and Osram Opto. However, we currently have no contract with any of these vendors. Until December 2006, Cree owned more than 5% of our outstanding capital stock. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, while Cree owned more than 5% of our stock, we purchased LEDs from Cree for an aggregate amount of approximately $4.0 million, $3.5 million and $766,000, respectively. We believe the terms of our purchases from Cree were no less favorable to us than those we could have obtained from an unaffiliated party. We have received no notice from any of our LED vendors that it will not continue to supply us with LEDs at competitive pricing in the future. We depend on our single-source vendors to supply critical components in adequate quantities and consistent quality and at reasonable costs. To qualify an alternate supply of single-sourced components and obtain them in needed quantities would be a time-consuming process, which could take six to nine months or more, and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. 17 Table of Contents We have in the past experienced shortages of standard electronic components, such as tantalum capacitors (for which there was, at the time, a worldwide shortage), as well as custom components specific to our products, for which we had a sole source of supply. If our suppliers are unable to meet our demand for critical components at reasonable costs, and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or the price for an alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be harmed. Because we generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to obtain components in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices in the longer term. If we are unable to obtain components in adequate quantities we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet demand for our products, which could harm our revenues and damage our reputation and our relationships with customers and prospective customers. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner, we may incur delays in shipment and our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. An important part of our business strategy is the expansion of production capacity for our LED lighting systems. We plan to increase production capacity both by adding new contract manufacturers and by expanding capacity with our existing contract manufacturers. Our ability to successfully increase production capacity will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • identification and availability of appropriate and affordable contract manufacturers; • ability of our current contract manufacturers to allocate more existing capacity to us or their ability to add new capacity quickly; • availability of critical components used in the manufacture of our products; • establishment of adequate management information systems, financial controls and supply chain management and quality control procedures; and • ability of our future contract manufacturers to implement our manufacturing processes. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products, which could harm our revenues and damage our reputation and our relationships with customers and prospective customers. We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of LED lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with various legal directives governing the materials of our products. Although we are not aware of an effort to amend any existing legal directive or implement a new legal directive in any event in a manner with which we cannot comply, our revenues might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all our products. In the United States, we seek, and to date have obtained, certification of substantially all of our products from Underwriters Laboratories (UL) and in Europe we seek, and to date have obtained, certification of substantially all of our products from Conformité Européenne (CE). Where appropriate in jurisdictions outside the United States and Europe, we seek to obtain other similar national or regional certifications for our products, such as Canadian Underwriters Laboratories (CUL) in Canada and Product Safety Electrical (PSE) in Japan. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards has facilitated certification approvals, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, that we will be able to maintain any such certifications for our existing products, especially since existing codes and standards were not created with LED lighting systems in mind. Moreover, although we are not aware of an effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in any event so that we cannot maintain certification for our existing products or obtain 18 Table of Contents certification for new products, our revenues might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur. Our gross margins are subject to variability. The gross profit as a percentage of sales, or gross margin, that we realize from the sale of our products varies from product to product. Many factors can influence the gross margins that we are able to achieve, including: • factors that affect the prices we can charge, including the features and performance of the products, the nature of the end user and application, and competitive pressures; • factors that affect our cost of revenues, including costs of raw materials and components, manufacturing costs and costs of shipping; • factors that affect the quality of our products; • in the case of our OEM business, the nature of the market served by our OEM customer and expected volume of its sales of our products; and • in the case of our licensing business, the extent to which our technologies are protected by patents, which influences the royalty rates we can obtain. In addition, gross margin from lighting systems may vary from period to period depending on a number of factors, most notably product mix, changes in material costs, and the timing of larger deals which, on average, tend to have lower gross margins. We depend for a substantial portion of our revenue on sales made by distributors and independent sales representatives, and the failure to manage successfully our relationships with these third parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our revenue to decline and harm our business. We rely in part upon third parties, including our distributors and independent sales representatives, to promote our products, generate demand and sales leads, and obtain orders for our products. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to our customers. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a major distributor or sales representative could have a negative effect on our sales, financial results and ability to support our customers, and we could experience a diversion of substantial time and resources as we seek to identify, contract with and train a replacement. Our OEM business consumes significant time and resources with no guarantee of revenues; OEM and licensing revenues are generally not subject to our control. As we seek to increase our revenues from sale of our OEM products, we are exposed to additional risks beyond those we have historically faced in our lighting systems business. The effort to have our technologies designed into an OEM customer’s product typically involves a lengthy sales process and design and engineering review that can consume significant time and resources on our part, with no guarantee of generating significant revenues. Failure to compete successfully with another vendor to have our technologies designed into a customer’s OEM product could foreclose opportunities to obtain revenue from that customer on other projects in the future, as the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier may make the OEM customer reluctant to change vendors in order to introduce our technologies. Our receipt of substantial revenue from an OEM customer is dependent on the success of the OEM customer in introducing and marketing commercial products incorporating our technologies, a process over which we have little or no control. Similarly, licensing revenue is dependent on the success of the licensee in introducing and marketing commercial products which license our technologies, a process over which we have no control. It may take several years for an OEM customer to evaluate our technologies and to develop and commence volume shipments of products incorporating our technologies. In some cases, such as where we have granted an OEM customer exclusive rights in a particular field, we seek to obtain minimum purchase commitments from the 19 Table of Contents customer. In general, however, our agreements with our OEM customers do not obligate them to purchase, or obligate us to supply, minimum volumes of products. Our failure to obtain new design wins for our OEM products, or delays or lack of success on the part of our OEM customers in introducing and marketing products incorporating our technologies, could result in our incurring substantial costs with little or no offsetting revenue, which could harm our revenue and profitability. We have limited experience conducting operations internationally, which may make overseas expansion more difficult and costly than we expect and adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. We are continuing to expand our sales and marketing capabilities to accelerate our penetration of the global market for our technologies and products. As a result, we are exposed to differing laws, regulations and business cultures that may adversely impact our business. We may also be exposed to economic and political instability and international unrest. Although we hope to enter into agreements with OEMs, distributors and other resellers that attempt to minimize these risks, such agreements may not be honored or we may not be able to adequately protect our interests. In 2006 we derived approximately 34% of our revenues from sales to customers outside the United States and Canada. We intend to expand our international presence in the future. There are many barriers and risks to competing successfully in the international marketplace, including the following: • costs of customizing products for foreign countries; • foreign currency risks; • dependence on local OEMs, distributors and resellers; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; and • import and export restrictions and tariffs. If we are not able to successfully market, sell and deliver our products and services in international markets, our revenue growth and profitability may be adversely affected. The loss of the services of any members of our key management team could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy and, as a result, adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers, who are William J. Sims, our President and Chief Executive Officer, David K. Johnson, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Jeffrey A. Cassis, our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Ihor A. Lys, our Chief Scientist, and Frederick M. Morgan, our Chief Technology Officer, and on the continued service of other key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, particularly experienced engineers. The competition for such employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may pursue acquisitions and investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve numerous risks, which could disrupt our business and may harm our financial condition. To date, we have not made any acquisitions, and we currently have no commitments or agreements to make any acquisitions. In the future, we may make acquisitions of and investments in new businesses, products and technologies, or we may acquire operations that expand our current capabilities. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company. For example, if we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate or finance the acquisition on favorable terms. Even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. As a result of the rapid pace of technological change, we may misgauge the long-term potential of the 20 Table of Contents acquired business or technology, or the acquisition may not be complementary to our existing business. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management’s attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. In addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are relocating our principal executive offices, which could disrupt our operations and harm our business. Our lease for our principal executive offices, which are in downtown Boston, expires in August 2007. In January 2007, we entered into a lease agreement to lease approximately 51,000 square feet pursuant to a ten year lease commencing September 1, 2007 in Burlington, Massachusetts. There are a number of risks associated with the relocation of our principal executive offices, including the risks that we may encounter completion delays or greater than anticipated completion costs, that our business may be disrupted, and that we may experience attrition among our employees who may prefer not to commute to the new location. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our future growth, profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. We anticipate significant growth in our business. Our anticipated growth is expected to place significant strain on our limited research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. For example, we must implement new modules of our management information system, hire and train new sales representatives and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our prospects for additional future growth may be limited, we may be unable to operate profitably and we may not be able to effectively pursue our business plan. Our operations are concentrated in a small number of facilities, and unavailability of one or more of these facilities could interrupt our business. Our research and development, sales and marketing and administrative activities are concentrated in our headquarters facility in Boston, Massachusetts. Our manufacturing operations are carried out by contract manufacturers at a small number of plants in or near the port city of Shenzhen in the Guangdong Province of China, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico. If, for any reason including as a result of natural disaster, political unrest, act of terrorism, war, outbreak of disease or other similar event, any of these facilities should be damaged or destroyed or become inaccessible or inoperable, our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected or interrupted entirely. We must comply with new regulatory requirements regarding internal control over financial reporting and corporate governance, which will cause us to incur significant costs, and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we annually evaluate and report on our systems of internal controls and that our independent registered public accounting firm must report on management’s evaluation of those controls. In the future, there may be material weaknesses in our internal controls that would be required to be reported in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. A negative reaction by the equity markets to the reporting of a material weakness could cause our stock price to decline. We are also spending an increased amount of management time and focus as well as external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. This has caused us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and has resulted in additional accounting and legal expenses. These additional expenses could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our stock could suffer as a result. 21 Table of Contents In addition, if in the future we acquire companies with weak internal controls, it will take time to get the internal controls of the acquired company up to the same level of operating effectiveness as ours. Our inability to address these risks could negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as needed in the future, our growth could be limited and we may be unable to pursue our current business strategy. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. If we decide to accelerate the growth in our operations in response to new market opportunities, acquire other technologies or companies, or if our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or we incur unexpected costs, we may need to raise additional capital. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If additional funds become necessary and are not available on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to expand our business or continue to pursue our current business strategy. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors holding our shares. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Since the completion of our initial public offering in June 2004, the sale price of our common stock has ranged from $8.15 to $23.60. Fluctuations in market price and volume are particularly common among securities of technology companies. As a result, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for it. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: • general fluctuations in stock market prices and volume, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of technology companies like ours; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic partnerships; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, including increases or decreases in litigation expense associated with patent lawsuits we have initiated, or in which we are named as defendants; • failure to complete significant sales; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our stock by our executive officers. We could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. The stock market in general, and market prices for the securities of technology companies like ours in particular, recently have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Recently, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, our defense of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management. 22 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • providing that directors may only be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of stockholders; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters to be submitted to a stockholder vote. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with our company or obtaining control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 