RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. • Holders of our equity securities and certain of our unsecured debt securities may lose a significant portion of the value of their investment. We have reached a non-binding agreement in principle with an ad hoc committee of holders of approximately 58% of outstanding principal amount of our senior subordinated notes for a potential restructuring, pursuant to which our senior subordinated notes would be exchanged for approximately 82% of the common stock of the reorganized company. While our negotiations with these noteholders is ongoing and their outcome is uncertain this exchange could be materially adverse to the holders of such notes. In addition, holders of our outstanding common stock would be substantially diluted pursuant to the proposed restructuring and may lose a significant portion of the value of their investment in our common stock. • Our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet may not be completed. The completion of our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet will require support from our creditors. If it is implemented pursuant to a bankruptcy proceeding, as currently proposed, consummation of any plan of reorganization will require a favorable vote by certain impaired classes of creditors, satisfaction of certain bankruptcy law requirements and confirmation by the bankruptcy court, which, as a court of equity, may exercise substantial discretion and choose not to confirm the plan. If the proposed restructuring, our initiative and/or any plan of reorganization does not receive the requisite support, our financial condition and the value of our securities will likely be materially adversely affected. Because the agreement in principle for the proposed restructuring is not binding and because there is no assurance it will be consummated, we continue to evaluate other alternatives for restructuring our capital structure. The uncertainty as to whether, how and when our restructuring may be consummated may cause concern in the marketplace among customers or vendors. If that concern results in the changing of payment or credit terms to us or our subsidiaries then our results from operations may be significantly affected. If a sufficient percentage of such constituencies were to make changes the Company may be forced to seek protection of the federal bankruptcy laws to manage the exposure. If we consummate any restructuring, we may do so outside of bankruptcy, or in a pre-packaged Chapter 11 proceeding or in another proceeding under federal bankruptcy law. As compared to a pre-packaged Chapter 11 proceeding, a non pre-packaged bankruptcy proceeding would likely be lengthier, involve more contested issues with creditors and other parties in interest and result in significantly increased administrative expenses, a negative impact on cash flow due to weakened trade and customer relations and a corresponding reduction in the consideration received by holders of unsecured or undersecured claims. Any of these alternatives may be potentially materially adverse to the holders of our common stock and our other securities, including our senior convertible notes and our senior subordinated notes, and may cause holders of our common stock and our other securities to lose a significant portion of the value of their investment in us. • If we are unable to service or refinance our indebtedness, or obtain amendments of our credit facility when necessary, we may need to seek protection from our creditors under federal bankruptcy laws. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding under our senior subordinated notes, senior convertible notes and new credit facility. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, it may be necessary for us to seek protection from our creditors under federal bankruptcy laws unless we reach an agreement with our creditors to the proposed restructuring plan or to another mutually agreeable restructuring plan. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate a 15 Table of Contents restructuring plan on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our next interest payment on our senior subordinated notes is February 1, 2006, on which date we will owe approximately $8.1 million in accrued interest to the holders of these notes, and there is no assurance that we will be able to make this interest payment when due. It has been necessary for us to seek amendments of our new credit facility in order to avoid our non-compliance with the fixed coverage ratio set forth in the agreement relating to the new credit facility. We will need to seek an additional amendment to the new credit facility before December 31, 2005, for the purpose of further amending the applicability of the fixed coverage ratio. If we are not able to satisfy the fixed coverage ratio or secure further amendments when necessary, we will be in default under the new credit facility. A default under the credit facility that is not cured or waived within 30 days would also result in defaults under our senior subordinated notes and senior convertible notes, which would cause the outstanding indebtedness under the new credit facility, senior subordinated notes and senior convertible notes to accelerate and become due. It would also be a default under our agreement with our primary surety bonding company. We do not have the necessary cash to repay our indebtedness if it were to become due and would likely have to seek protection from our creditors under federal bankruptcy laws unless we reach an agreement with our creditors to the proposed restructuring plan or to another mutually agreeable restructuring plan. Filing of bankruptcy would also be a “Fundamental Change” under our senior convertible notes. Please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Whether or not we file for protection in connection with a pre-package bankruptcy proceeding or otherwise, it is likely that the current holders of our equity securities will lose a significant portion of their value as a result of the dilution that will result from the claims of our more senior stakeholders. • Our common stock has been suspended from trading on the NYSE and could be delisted from the NYSE. As of December 5, 2005, our 30-trading day average stock price was below $1.00 and we had failed to meet other published requirements for the continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE, including the exchange’s market capitalization requirement. On December 15, 2005, the NYSE suspended trading of our common stock, and notified us orally that it intended to de-list our common stock, subject to our right to appeal in accordance with the NYSE’s rules. We intend to appeal this determination by the NYSE, which process would likely take in excess of 35 business days from December 16, 2005, which is the day we received written notice from the NYSE of its intent to de-list our common stock. If we do not succeed in appealing this determination by the NYSE, the NYSE has indicated that it will promptly request the SEC to de-list our common stock. If our common stock is de-listed from the NYSE, the holders of our senior convertible notes would have the right, beginning 35 business days after de-listing, to put their notes back to us. We would likely not be able to pay the principal and accrued interest on those notes if put to us. Additionally, our new credit facility restricts our ability to repurchase these notes. Our inability to repurchase these notes and the limitations in our new credit facility to repurchase these notes could affect the success of any plan of reorganization contemplated by us without an agreement with the holders of the senior convertible notes. Absent an agreement with the holders of the senior convertible notes to any pre-packaged Chapter 11 plan that may be filed, we would seek to reinstate their notes or give them property equal to the full value of their note claims. We do not presently have an agreement with any of the holders of the senior convertible notes to the agreement in principle or any other proposed restructuring plan. • The tax consequences of our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet are uncertain. Although we do not believe that implementation of our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet will itself result in significant tax liability, the impact on our ability to use existing net operating loss carryovers, built-in losses and other favorable tax attributes following completion of the initiative is uncertain. Limitations on our ability to use such favorable tax attributes could adversely affect our financial position. • The costs, monetary and otherwise, associated with our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet will negatively impact our cash flows from operations. The initiative to de-lever our balance sheet requires a significant percentage of management’s time and attention which distracts them from focusing on the operation of our business. We are incurring additional 16 Table of Contents costs related our initiative to de-lever our balance sheet, including the fees of the legal and financial advisors we have retained to assist us with this initiative. We will continue to incur additional costs associated with the de-levering of our balance sheet and these costs will negatively impact our cash flows from operations. • Our auditors opinion that the operating losses and probable future lack of compliance with certain debt covenants raise a doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, included a going concern modification in its audit opinion on our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 included in this Form 10-K as a result of our operating losses during fiscal 2005 and our potential non-compliance with certain debt covenants subsequent to September 30, 2005. The auditors “going concern” opinion will continue at least until they consent to the incorporation by reference of their issued opinion. That may not occur until the next 10-K filing in twelve months. The “going concern” opinion may cause concern in one or more of our constituencies of employees, shareholders, debt holders, customers, vendors, or trade creditors. If any customer’s, vendor’s or trade creditor’s concern changes their business relations with us by stopping work, ceasing sales, requiring sales on cash terms or other changes, these changes may materially adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Receiving a “Going Concern” opinion is one criteria considered by the NYSE in determining the appropriateness of a delisting. • Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. Evaluations are made of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. In connection with management’s evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we determined that a material weakness existed with our internal control over financial reporting which arose from high turnover in an already limited accounting staff and the significant demands on that accounting staff resulting from the issues facing the Company. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective to achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the real world possibility that judgments in our decision-making can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. • The Class Action Securities Litigation if continued or if decided against us could have a material adverse effect. Resulting from our inability to file a 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 and the associated decline in the trading price of our stock, a series a of class action securities claims were filed and later consolidated into one action pending in Houston, Texas. The case has been fully briefed on the Motion to Dismiss and we are awaiting a ruling by the judge. If the judge does not dismiss the action then further discovery and expenses 17 Table of Contents would likely occur. We have Directors and Officers insurance that provides coverage for this action. It is difficult to predict liability or any potential range of damages that we might incur in connection with this action. An adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or cash flows. • Downturns in construction could adversely affect our business because more than half of our business is dependent on levels of new construction activity. More than half of our business involves the installation of electrical systems in newly constructed and renovated buildings, plants and residences. The construction industry is cyclical and downturns in levels of construction or housing starts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues from new installation services will depend on the number of new construction starts and renovations, which will likely correlate with the cyclical nature of the construction industry. The number of new building starts will be affected by local economic conditions, and other factors, including the following: • employment and income levels; • interest rates and other factors affecting the availability and cost of financing; • tax implications for homebuyers and commercial construction; • consumer confidence; and • housing demand. Additionally, a majority of our business is focused in the southeastern and southwestern portions of the United States, concentrating our exposure to local economic conditions in those regions. Downturns in levels of construction or housing starts in these geographic areas could result in a material reduction in our activity levels. • The highly competitive nature of our industry could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The electrical contracting industry is served by many small, owner-operated private companies, public companies and several large regional companies. We could also face competition in the future from new competitors entering these markets. Electrical contracting has a relatively low capital requirement for entry. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. • There is a shortage of qualified electricians. Since the majority of our work is performed by electricians, this shortage may negatively impact our business, including our ability to grow. There is a shortage of qualified electricians in the United States. In order to conduct our business, it is necessary to employ electricians and have those electricians qualified in the states where they do business. While overall economic growth has diminished, our ability to increase productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled electricians required to meet our needs. Accordingly there can be no assurance, among other things, that: • we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently; • our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the skilled labor supply; and • we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to implement our planned internal growth and respond to improving construction market and work from the hurricane damaged Gulf Coast region. 18 Table of Contents • Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in residential construction. Untimely weather delay from rain, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. • The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of gasoline, labor and materials, however, may vary from significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. • We may experience difficulties in managing internal growth or consolidations. In order to grow internally, we must expect to expend significant time and effort managing and expanding existing operations. We cannot guarantee that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support expanding operations, including the timely receipt of financial information. Growth imposes significant added responsibilities on our senior management, such as the need to identify, recruit and integrate new senior managers and executives. If we are unable to manage our growth, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, our operations could be materially adversely affected. As we have sold companies and consolidated some support functions of human resources, payroll, estimating, safety, accounting, and other administrative support functions it has offered some cost savings. Those savings only arise after the consolidations and after additional time and effort managing that consolidation. The divestitures also result in some increase in non-productive costs such as unused lease facilities and equipment that must be re-deployed or sold. • We may experience difficulties in managing our working capital. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain benchmarks and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those benchmarks have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations if this occurred over several large projects. As we have had limited surety bond availability some of our customers have increased the normal 5-10% retainage to a higher percentage. This results in a delay in receipt of not only the profit but also working capital expended on the jobs. • To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales and that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to 19 Table of Contents refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms could materially adversely affect our business. • We have a substantial amount of debt. Our current debt level could limit our ability to fund future working capital needs and increase our exposure during adverse economic conditions. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse operational performance and economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit the amount of surety bonding available for use by subsidiaries. • place us at a disadvantage compared to a competitor that has less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness outstanding under our senior subordinated notes, senior convertible notes and new credit facility. Our next interest payment on our senior subordinated notes is February 1, 2006, on which date we will owe approximately $8.1 million in accrued interest to the holders of these notes, and there is no assurance that we will be able to make this interest payment when due. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, it may be necessary for us to seek protection from our creditors under federal bankruptcy law. We may also seek to consummate a restructuring through a pre-packaged Chapter 11 proceeding although we cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate a restructuring plan on terms acceptable to us or at all. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 86-30, “Classifications of Obligations When a Violation is Waived by the Creditor,” we have classified the long-term portion of our senior convertible notes and senior subordinated notes as current liabilities on the balance sheet due to the need to amend our credit facility prior to December 31, 2005 and the potential for cross-defaults described above if we are unsuccessful. To service our indebtedness, including trade payables, and working capital, we require a significant amount of cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash flow to service these liquidity needs and obligations. Our cash flow fluctuates seasonally and even daily, sometimes significantly. During our efforts to restructure the company, these fluctuations may increase in amount and may adversely affect our business and our cash flow. In connection with our efforts to restructure the company, some or all of our trade creditors may refuse to extend credit to us or do business with us. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to pay our trade creditors or if our trade creditors refuse to do business with us on terms acceptable to us or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Risk Factors — To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors.” • A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. Our inability to obtain surety bonds could adversely affect our operating results and reduce future revenues. Surety market conditions are difficult as a result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent periods, both in the construction industry as well as in connection with certain large corporate bankruptcies particularly for large surety bond needs of a company the size of IES. As a result terms have become more restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue bonds on a project by project basis, and can decline to issue bonds at any time. Historically, approximately 35% of our fixed price contract business has required bonds and presently only about 10% of our work is bonded. While we have enjoyed a longstanding relationship with our surety, current market conditions as well as changes in our surety’s assessment of our operating and financial risk could cause our surety to decline to issue bonds for our work on terms acceptable to IES or even at all. If that were to occur, our alternatives include doing more business that does not require bonds, posting other forms of collateral for project performance such as letters of credit or 20 Table of Contents cash, providing other forms of assurance such as insurance products or parental guarantees and seeking bonding capacity from other sureties. There can be no assurance that we could achieve these alternatives. Accordingly, if we continue to experience less availability of bonding capacity, our operating results could be adversely impacted by a reduction of revenue. At this time, we do not have a commitment from our surety company that it will continue to write bonds for our projects. There are certain situations where, if we are unable to obtain a surety bond, we could be subject to claims or damages. Those situations include projects (i) where bonds are required on the job and we have already begun work and (ii) jobs where the terms of the contract allow the customer to later require a bond even if the bond was not required when work began. If we are unable to obtain a bond in connection with such a project, we could be subject to a damage claim by the customer for the costs of replacing us with another contractor. Customers, however, are often reluctant to replace an existing contractor and may be willing to waive the bonding requirement or, through negotiation, agree to different payment terms. In certain cases surety bond companies are willing to provide surety bonds only if cash or letters of credit are provided as collateral. This additional cost, when combined with the costs to perform the work and the practice in the industry of the customer retaining a percentage of the contract amount until the job is completed, can make projects that are subject to this type of collateral requirement not economically viable. • We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by numerous tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We believe that we have adequate reserves in the event that a taxing authority differs with positions we have taken, however, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected. • Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” established accounting and reporting requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill attributable to each of four reporting units be tested at least annually (absent any impairment indicators). The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis (absent any impairment indicators), we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually during the first fiscal quarter of each year. Impairment adjustments recognized after adoption, if any, generally are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. • Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery caused injuries, mechanical failures or transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. No assurance can be given either that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. 21 Table of Contents • The loss of a group of key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our current and future executive officers, senior management and management personnel at the companies we have acquired. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. During these volatile times we have an increased risk of employees departing. If we lose a group of key personnel, our operations could be adversely affected. We do not maintain key man life insurance. • The loss of productivity, either at the corporate office or operating level, could adversely affect our business. Our business is primarily driven by labor. The ability to perform contracts at acceptable margins depends on our ability to deliver substantial labor productivity. We cannot guarantee that productivity will continue at acceptable levels at our corporate office and our operating subsidiaries for a particular period of time. With the increased activity of de-levering our balance sheet and the uncertainty in the market there is an increased difficulty in maintaining morale and focus of employees. The loss of productivity could adversely affect the margins on existing contracts or the ability to obtain new contracts. • Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are always claims and litigation. Latent defect litigation is a normal course for residential home builders in some parts of the country. There is also the inherent claims and litigation risk of the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road everyday. Those claims and litigation risks are managed through safety programs, insurance programs, litigation management at the corporate office and the local level and a network of attorneys and law firms throughout the country. Nevertheless, claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed and some for amounts in excess of their value or amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. Because of the large number of claims of a company with so many contracts and employees, there can be periods of time where a disproportionate amount of the claims and litigation may come to the point of resolution through the court system, arbitration, mediation, or settlement all in the same quarter or year. If these matters resolve near the same time then the cumulative effect can be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Independent of the normal litigation risks, as a result IES’ inability to timely file its third quarter Form 10-Q and the subsequent events, a class action lawsuit has been filed, a shareholder derivative action has been filed and a formal SEC investigation is ongoing. Those matters are discussed in more detail in Item 3 of this document. • The sale of subsidiaries may expose us to losses. We determined to sell all or substantially all of the assets of certain wholly owned subsidiaries. Those sales were made to facilitate the business needs and purposes of the organization as a whole. Since we were a consolidator of electrical contracting businesses, often the best candidate to purchase those assets was a previous owner of those assets. That previous owner may sometimes still be associated with the subsidiary as an officer of that subsidiary. To facilitate the desired timing, the sales were being made with more than ordinary reliance on the representations of the purchaser, who is often the person most familiar with the business unit being sold. There is the potential in retaining the company structure that if the purchaser is unwilling or unable to perform the transferred liabilities, we may be forced to fulfill obligations that were assumed by others. We would then seek reimbursement from the parties that assumed those liabilities. 22 Table of Contents 