Item 1A RISK FACTORS Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Item 2 PROPERTIES Item 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Item 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II Item 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Item 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Item 7 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Item 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Item 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA Item 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Item 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Item 9B OTHER INFORMATION PART III Item 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Item 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Item 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Item 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV Item 15 EXHIBITS SIGNATURES 2 PART I DEFINITIONS In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words "IES", the "Company", "we", "our", "ours", and "us" refer to Integrated Electrical Services, Inc. and, except as otherwise specified herein, to our subsidiaries. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, all of which are based upon various estimates and assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable as of the date hereof. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in such statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: •potential difficulty in fulfilling the covenant terms of our credit facilities and term loan; •limitations on the availability of sufficient credit or cash flow to fund working capital needs; •the increased costs of surety bonds affecting margins on work and the ability to obtain additional bonding; •the inherent uncertainties relating to estimating future operating results and our ability to generate sales, operating income, or cash flow; •potential difficulty in addressing material weaknesses identified by us and our independent auditors; •fluctuations in operating results because of downturns in levels of construction, downturns in sections of construction particularly residential construction, seasonality and differing regional economic conditions; •fluctuations in financial results from operations caused by the increasing cost of commodities used in our business, in particular copper, aluminum, steel, gasoline and certain plastics. •general economic and capital markets conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates that affect the cost of construction financing and mortgages; •inaccurate estimates used in entering into fixed-priced contracts; •inaccuracies in estimating revenue and percentage of completion on contracts; •difficulty in managing the operation of existing entities; •the high level of competition in the construction industry both from third parties and former employees; •increases in costs or limitations on availability of qualified labor, especially electricians and construction supervisors; •accidents resulting from the physical hazards associated with our work and the number of miles driven in Company vehicles with the level of exposure to vehicle accidents; •loss of key personnel or transition of new senior management; •difficulties in integrating new types of work or new processes into divisions; •difficulty incorporating new accounting, control and operating procedures; 3 •disagreements with taxing authorities with regard to tax positions we have adopted; •the loss of productivity, either at the corporate office or operating level; •difficulty in transferring all our electrical and construction licenses after our recent consolidation of subsidiaries; •growth in latent defect litigation in the residential market and the expansion into other states where we provide residential electrical work for new home builders; and •the possibility that our restructuring program will not be successfully executed. You should understand that the foregoing, as well as other risk factors discussed in this document, including those listed in Part I, Item 1A of this report under the heading "Risk Factors" could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those experienced previously or those expressed in such forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise information concerning our restructuring efforts, borrowing availability, or its cash position or any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this report. Forward-looking statements are provided in this Form 10-K pursuant to the safe harbor established under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be evaluated in the context of the estimates, assumptions, uncertainties, and risks described herein. Item 1. Business We are a leading provider of electrical contracting services in the United States. We provide a broad range of services including designing, building, maintaining and servicing electrical, data communications and utilities systems for commercial, industrial and residential customers. Our electrical contracting services include design of electrical distribution systems within a building or complex, procurement and installation of wiring and connection to power sources, end-use equipment and fixtures, as well as contract maintenance. We service commercial, industrial and residential markets and have a diverse customer base including: general contractors; property managers and developers; corporations; government agencies; municipalities; and homeowners. We provide services for a variety of projects including: high-rise residential and office buildings, power plants, manufacturing facilities, municipal infrastructure and health care facilities and residential developments. We also offer low voltage contracting services as a complement to our electrical contracting business. Our low voltage services include design and installation of external cables for corporations, universities, data centers and switching stations for data communications companies as well as the installation of fire and security alarm systems. Our utility services consist of overhead and underground installation and maintenance of electrical and other utilities transmission and distribution networks, installation and splicing of high-voltage transmission and distribution lines, substation construction and substation and right-of-way maintenance. Our maintenance services generally provide recurring revenues that are typically less affected by levels of construction activity. We focus on projects that require special expertise, such as design-and-build projects that utilize the capabilities of our in-house experts or projects that require specific market expertise such as hospitals or power generation facilities, as well as service, maintenance and certain renovation and upgrade work, which tends to either be recurring, have lower sensitivity to economic cycles, or both. As of December 2007, we provide our services from 122 locations serving the continental 48 states. We continue to focus internally on integrating our information technology systems to enhance operating controls of our organization, as well as integrating a consolidated procurement program to manage vendors on a national basis. 4 Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 On February 14, 2006, we filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division. The Bankruptcy Court jointly administered these cases as "In re Integrated Electrical Services, Inc. et. al., Case No. 06-30602-BJH-11." On April 26, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving and confirming the plan of reorganization. The plan was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on April 28, 2006. We operated our businesses and managed our properties as debtors-in-possession in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code from the commencement date through emergence from Chapter 11 on May 12, 2006, the effective date of the plan. In accordance with the plan: (i) The holders of the senior subordinated notes received on the date we emerged from bankruptcy, in exchange for their total claims (including principal and interest), 82% of the fully diluted new common stock representing 12,631,421 shares, before giving effect to options to be issued under a new employee and director stock option plan which could be up to 10% of the fully diluted shares of new IES common stock outstanding as of the effective date of the plan. (ii) The holders of old common stock received 15% of the fully diluted new common stock representing 2,310,614 shares, before giving effect to the 2006 equity incentive plan. (iii) Certain members of management received up to 384,850 restricted shares of new common stock equal to 2.5% of the fully diluted new common stock with an additional 0.5% reserved for new key employees, before giving effect to the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. The restricted shares of new common stock vest over an approximately 31.5 month period. (iv) $50 million in senior convertible notes were refinanced from the proceeds of the $53 million term loan. (v) All other allowed claims were either paid in full in cash or reinstated. Competitive Strengths Our competitive strengths include the following: •Geographic diversity—We have 122 locations serving the continental 48 states, and we worked on more than 900 contracts over $250,000 and nearly 3,100 contracts overall in 2007. Our national presence sometimes mitigates much of the region specific economic slowdowns. Since 1997, much of our revenues have been derived from the Sunbelt states, which have had higher growth rates than overall U.S. construction. Our geographic diversity also enables us to serve national customers with multiple locations. •Customer diversity—Our diverse customer base includes general contractors, property developers and managers, facility owners and managers of large retail establishments, manufacturing and processing facilities, utilities, government agencies and homeowners. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the year ended September 30, 2007. We believe that customer diversity provides us with many advantages including reducing our dependence on, or exposure to, any single customer. Additionally, our expertise in a variety of industries coupled with our national reach allows us to be flexible and to share our expertise across regions. •Expertise—We have expertise in high-rise buildings including hotels, condominiums and office buildings, retail centers, hospitals, switching centers and utility substations and single-family and multi-family residential homes. We believe we have advantages in technical expertise provides us with (1) access to higher margin design-and-build projects; (2) access to growth markets 5 including wireless telecommunications, high voltage line work, video and security and fire systems; and (3) the ability to deliver quality service with greater reliability than that of many of our competitors. •Licensing—Our master electricians are licensed in one or more cities or other jurisdictions in order to obtain the permits required in our business. Some employees have also obtained specialized licenses in areas including security systems and fire alarm installation. In some areas, licensing boards have set continuing education requirements for maintenance of licenses. Because of the lengthy and difficult training and licensing process for electricians, we believe that the number, skills and licenses of our employees constitute a competitive strength in the industry. •Ability to service national projects—Our nationwide presence helps us compete for larger, national contracts with customers that operate throughout the United States and large government contracts. Additionally, we believe our size and national service offering uniquely positions us as the only single source open shop electrical contracting service provider able to execute projects on a national basis. We are able to take on very large and complex projects, often with a national scope, that would strain the capabilities and resources of most of our competitors. This type of work represents a growing market and we have made progress in pursuing these sizable accounts. •Access to resources—Access to resources is a key to success, especially in this robust market environment. Losses experienced by the surety industry in recent years have caused surety providers to limit capacity and increase prices for all participants, including us, even though we have incurred no surety losses on any project in our over ten-year history. We believe we have adequate remaining available bonding capacity, subject to the sole discretion of our surety providers (See Part II, Item 7. "Surety"). We also had $46.7 million in aggregate face value of bonds issued under Scarborough. As of September 30, 2007, the expected aggregate cost to complete for projects covered by CHUBB, SureTec and Scarborough was $98.4 million. We believe we have adequate remaining available bonding capacity, subject to the sole discretion of our surety providers (See Part II, Item 7. "Surety"). Additionally, we have access to our credit facility. As of September 30, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $69.7 million, restricted cash of $20.0 million, $45.6 million in outstanding borrowings under our term loan and $43.1 million of letters of credit outstanding. •Proprietary systems and processes—We have proprietary systems and processes that help us bid on projects, manage projects once they have been awarded and maintain and track customer information. In addition, we developed techniques and processes for installation on a variety of different projects that utilize a proprietary project management operating system and best practices. •Utilization of prefabrication processes—Our size and 100% merit shop environment has allowed us to implement best prefabrication practices across our company quickly. We prefabricate and preassemble or prepackage significant portions of electrical installations off-site and ship materials to the installation sites in specific sequences to optimize materials management, improve efficiency and minimize our employees' time on job sites. This is safer, more efficient and more cost effective for both us and our customers. •Experienced management—We have developed a strong team of executive officers, which have a vast range of experiences and well-known reputations in the markets they have served. This team has been put in place to identify challenges that may arise within their business area, seek opportunities for change and improvement and react accordingly. Our focus as management is to drive operational improvements, set strategy and build capabilities. We believe management and our employees currently own approximately 3% of our outstanding common stock. 6 Short Term Initiatives During the fall of 2006, under the leadership of our Executive Management Team, we began a systematic program to strengthen our core processes, which included a review of all key elements of the IES enterprise, including our personnel, processes and business systems. This systematic review was guided by an assembly of expert teams from within our business units supported by our Executive Management Team and operational management. In fiscal year 2007, in response to the strategies and recommendations of this review, we: •hired a new Chief Financial Officer who has strong operational finance experience and demonstrated strategic leadership; •hired vice presidents to lead our supply-chain management and marketing efforts; •embarked on a strategic reorganization within our Commercial and Industrial and our Residential operating segments, which aligned businesses along industry lines, created shared services centers within these groups and permitted the elimination of redundant positions throughout the Company; •implemented the first phase of a comprehensive project management system which provides us with a unique operating tool versus our competitors on a both a local and national level; •the divestiture or closure of non-core and underperforming subsidiaries; •worked to turn around underperforming subsidiaries; and •continued our focus on safety, again exceeding the prior year's safety performance. We are resolute that a culture focused on safety is central to excellence in project execution and significantly reduces risks to our employees and consequent costs to the business. We remain focused on strengthening the foundation of the Company. Industry Overview The residential and non-residential construction industries have both experienced strong growth rates for several years. Since the middle of 2007, economic conditions, notably restricted access to credit, have lead to a sharp decrease in demand for residential housing. Reviewing the most recently available data from McGraw Hill Construction Analytics and FMI Construction Outlook, we believe the effects of reduced availability of credit are a significant concern for the construction industry, and we have already experienced a downturn in our residential construction business. Using data from both sources mentioned above, for the period from 2001 to 2006, the five-year compounded annual growth rate for non-residential construction was 3.5%. For the same period, the five-year compounded annual growth rate for residential construction was 9.5%. Fiscal year 2007 forecasts indicate that non-residential construction will increase approximately 8.2% from the previous year; however, residential construction could decline by up to 16%. Looking forward, the housing market is projected to return to a moderate growth rate. Based on research provided by FMI Construction Outlook and McGraw-Hill Construction, residential construction is expected to continue to grow, but at a modest rate with the projected five-year compounded annual growth rate to be 0.7%. In contrast to the decreased growth in residential construction, growth in non-residential construction is still expected to outpace the economy as a whole. The projected five-year compounded annual growth rate for non-residential construction is approximately 7.3%. 7 The Markets We Serve Commercial and Industrial Market. Our commercial and industrial work consists primarily of electrical, communications, utility installations and upgrade, renovation, replacement and service and maintenance work in: •airports; •community centers; •high-rise apartments and condominiums; •hospitals and health care centers; •hotels; •manufacturing and processing facilities; •military installations; •office buildings; •refineries, petrochemical and power plants; •retail stores and centers; •schools; and •theaters, stadiums and arenas. Our commercial and industrial customers include: •general contractors; •developers; •building owners and managers; •engineers; •architects; and •consultants. Demand for our commercial and industrial services is driven by construction and renovation activity levels, as well as more stringent local and national electrical codes. From fiscal 2003 through 2007, our compound annual growth rate from commercial and industrial revenue has fallen approximately 1.4% per year, due in large part to a more selective strategy focused on higher margin projects. The industry average for non-residential construction services has grown at a compound annual rate of approximately 6.7% per year. Commercial and industrial work represented approximately 62%, 58% and 63% of our consolidated revenues for the twelve month periods ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. For additional segment information see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New commercial and industrial work begins with either a design request or engineer's plans from the owner or general contractor. Initial meetings with the parties allow us to prepare preliminary, detailed design specifications, engineering drawings and cost estimates. Projects we design and build generally provide us with higher margins. "Design and build" gives the Company full or partial responsibility for the design specifications of the installation. Design and build is an alternative to the traditional "plan and spec" model, where the contractor builds to the exact specifications of the architect and engineer. We prefer to perform "design and build" work, because it allows us to use our specialized expertise to install a more value-added system to our customer with higher profitability to 8 us. Once a project is awarded, it is conducted in scheduled phases and progress billings are rendered to our customer for payment, less retention of 5% to 10% of the construction cost of the project. We generally provide the materials to be installed as a part of these contracts, which vary significantly in size from a few hundred dollars to several million dollars and vary in duration from less than a day to more than a year. Actual fieldwork is coordinated during this time, including: •ordering of equipment and materials; •fabricating or assembling of certain components (pre-fabrication); •delivering of materials and components to the job site; and •scheduling of work crews, inspection and quality control. We design and install communications and utility infrastructure systems and low voltage systems for the commercial and industrial market as a complement to our primary electrical contracting services. We believe the demand for our communications services is driven by the following factors: the pace of technological change; the overall growth in voice and data traffic; and the increasing use of personal computers, with particular emphasis on the market for broadband internet access. Demand for our utilities services is driven by industry deregulation, limited maintenance or capital expenditures on existing systems and increased loads and supply and delivery requirements. Demand for our low voltage systems is driven by the construction industry growth rate and our ability to cross-sell among our customers. Service and maintenance revenues, which represent less than ten percent of consolidated revenues, are derived from service calls and routine maintenance contracts, which tend to be recurring and less sensitive to economic fluctuations. Service and maintenance is supplied on a per-call basis. Per-call service and maintenance is initiated when a customer requests emergency repair service. Service technicians are scheduled for the call or routed to the customer's place of business by the dispatcher. We will then follow up with the customer to schedule periodic maintenance work. Most service work is warranted for thirty days. Service personnel work out of our service vehicles, which carry an inventory of equipment, tools, parts and supplies needed to complete the typical variety of jobs. The technician assigned to a service call: •travels to the place of business; •interviews the customer; •diagnoses the problem; •prepares and discusses a price quotation; and •performs the work and often collects payment from the customer immediately. Residential Market—Our work for the residential market consists primarily of electrical installations in new single-family housing and low-rise, multi-family housing, for local, regional and national homebuilders and developers. We believe demand for our residential services is dependent on the number of single-family and multi-family home starts in the markets we serve. Single-family home starts are affected by the level of interest rates, demand and general economic conditions. A competitive factor particularly important in the residential market is our ability to develop relationships with homebuilders and developers by providing services in multiple areas of their operations. This ability has become increasingly important as consolidation has occurred in the residential construction industry, and homebuilders and developers have sought out service providers that can provide consistent service in all of their operating regions. We are currently one of the largest providers of electrical contracting services to the U.S. residential construction market, and our residential business has experienced significant growth over the 9 last five years. During the last year however, we have been impacted by the residential industry down turn that has resulted in a 25% decline in revenues compared to fiscal year 2006. Our compound annual growth rate from residential electrical revenue has grown 9.1% from fiscal 2003 through 2007 compared to an industry average of approximately 9.5% over the same period. Residential electrical contracting represented approximately 38%, 42% and 37% of our consolidated revenues for the twelve month periods ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The residential business is generally more profitable and less capital intensive than our commercial and industrial business; however, the recent housing market has produced increased competition that has impacted margins. It also has lower barriers to entry and has a much lower requirement for surety bonding. Our results of operations from residential construction are seasonal, depending on weather trends, with typically higher revenues generated during spring and summer and lower revenues during fall and winter. For additional segment information see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Customers We have a diverse customer base. We will continue our emphasis on developing and maintaining relationships with our customers by providing superior, high-quality service. During the twelve month periods ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues. Backlog On September 30, 2007, we had backlog of approximately $334.3 million compared to a backlog of approximately $370.3 million as of September 30, 2006. Of the $36.0 million decline, approximately 70% was associated with our Residential segment due to reductions in multi-family housing demand. The remaining 30% of the decrease was in the Commercial and Industrial segment and is attributed to a shift toward time and materials projects which do not typically have large backlogs. Company Operations We are committed to providing the highest level of customer service through the development of a highly trained workforce. Employees are encouraged to complete a progressive training program to advance their technical competencies and to ensure that they understand and follow the applicable codes, our safety practices and other internal policies. We support and fund continuing education for our employees, as well as apprenticeship training for technicians under the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the Department of Labor and similar state agencies. Employees who train as apprentices for four years may seek to become journeymen electricians and, after additional years of experience, master electricians. We pay progressive increases in compensation to employees who acquire this additional training, and more highly trained employees serve as foremen, estimators and project managers. We also actively recruit and screen applicants for our technical positions and have established programs in some locations to recruit apprentice technicians directly from high schools and vocational technical schools. Competition The electrical contracting industry is highly fragmented and is served by many small, owner-operated private companies. There are also several large private regional and also a small number of large public companies in our industry. We could also face competition in the future from new competitors entering these markets because electrical contracting has a relatively low capital requirement for entry. 10 Regulations Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: •licensing requirements applicable to electricians; •building and electrical codes; •regulations relating to consumer protection, including those governing residential service agreements; •regulations relating to worker safety and protection of the environment; and •qualifications of our business legal structure in the jurisdictions where we do business. We expect to have all licenses required to conduct our operations and are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses or an inability to perform government work. Many state and local regulations governing electricians require permits and licenses to be held by individuals. In some cases, a required permit or license held by a single individual may be sufficient to authorize specified activities for all our electricians who work in the state or county that issued the permit or license. It is our policy to ensure that, where possible, any permits or licenses that may be material to our operations in a particular geographic area are held by multiple IES employees within that area. Risk Management and Insurance The primary risks in our operations include health, bodily injury, property damage and injured workers' compensation. We maintain automobile and general liability insurance for third party health, bodily injury and property damage and workers' compensation coverage, which we consider appropriate to insure against these risks. Our third-party insurance is subject to large deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. Employees At September 30, 2007, we had 5,746 employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements with our employees. We believe that our relationship with our employees is satisfactory. Available Information General information about us can be found on our website at www.ies-co.com under "Investor Relations". We file our interim and annual financial reports, as well as other reports required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports are free of charge through our website as soon as it is reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may also contact our Investor Relations department and they will provide you with a copy. We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors, officers and employees (the Legal Compliance and Corporate Policy Manual), and established Corporate Governance Guidelines and adopted charters outlining the duties of our Audit, Human Resources and Compensation and Nominating/ Governance Committees, copies of which may be found on our website. Paper copies of these documents are also available free of charge upon written request to us. We have designated an "audit committee financial expert" as that term is defined 11 by the SEC. Further information about this designee may be found in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. •Our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objective will be met. Evaluations are made of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effect of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be satisfied. Internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give a reasonable assurance that they are effective and achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues within our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that our judgments can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur and not be detected. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2007 and concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as a result of the identification of a material weakness. The material weakness that we identified relates to control deficiencies at one of our subsidiaries that resulted in the inadequate preparation of estimated costs to complete for certain contracts accounted for under the percentage of completion method. For more information related to this material weakness, see Part II, Item 9A. "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting". •Downturns in the construction industry could adversely affect our business because more than half of our business is dependent on levels of new construction activity. The majority of our business involves the installation of electrical systems in newly constructed and renovated buildings, plants and residences. The construction industry is cyclical and is presently experiencing a downturn in levels of housing starts. This downturn has begun to affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues from new installation services will be impacted by the number of new construction starts and renovations, which will likely correlate with the cyclical nature of the construction industry. The number of new building starts will be affected by local economic conditions, and other factors, including the following: •interest rates and other factors affecting the availability and cost of financing; 12 •employment and income levels; •tax implications for homebuyers and commercial construction; •consumer confidence and demand; •housing demand; and •commodity costs such as copper, aluminum, steel, lumber and gasoline. A majority of our business is focused in the southeastern and southwestern portions of the United States, concentrating our exposure to local economic conditions in those regions. The residential construction portion of our business experienced slowed growth and cost pressures in the second half of our 2007 fiscal year which affected the profitability of that portion of our business. •The highly competitive nature of our industry could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The electrical contracting industry is served by many small, owner-operated private companies, public companies and several large regional companies. We could also face competition in the future from new competitors entering these markets because electrical contracting has a relatively low capital requirement for entry. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. •There is a shortage of qualified electricians. Since the majority of our work is performed by electricians, this shortage may negatively impact our business, including our ability to grow. There is a shortage of qualified electricians in the United States. In order to conduct our business, it is necessary to employ electricians and have those electricians qualified in the states where they do business. While overall economic growth has diminished, our ability to increase productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled electricians required to meet our needs. Accordingly there can be no assurance, among other things, that: •we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently; •our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the skilled labor supply; and •we will be able to maintain the skilled labor force necessary to implement our planned growth. •Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in residential construction. Untimely weather delay from rain, heat, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Additionally, increases in construction materials such as steel, aluminum, copper and lumber can alter the rate of new construction. 13 •The availability and cost of surety bonds affect our ability to enter into new contracts and our margins on those engagements. Many of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a surety. Those bonds guarantee the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. We obtain our surety bonds from three different providers; however, there is no commitment from these providers to guarantee our ability to issue bonds for projects as they are required. Our ability to access this bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety providers and is subject to certain limitations such as limits on the size of any individual bond and restrictions on the total amount of bonds that can be issued in a given month. We believe that our relationships with these providers will allow us to provide surety bonds if and when they are required; however, we cannot guarantee that such bonds will be available. •The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of gasoline, labor and materials, however, may vary significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. •Commodity costs may fluctuate materially and we may not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices and if the cost associated with commodities such as copper, aluminum, steel, gasoline and certain plastics increase, our expected profit may decline under that contract. •We may experience difficulties in managing consolidations. We expect to expend significant time and effort managing and merging existing operations. We cannot guarantee that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support operations, including the timely receipt of financial information. As we have consolidated some support functions of human resources, payroll, estimating, safety, accounting, and other administrative support functions it has offered some cost savings. Those savings only arise after the consolidations and after additional time and effort managing that consolidation. •We may experience difficulties in managing our billings and collections. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain benchmarks and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those benchmarks have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operations if this occurred over several large projects. •To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 14 We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales and that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms would materially adversely affect our business. •We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facilities and term loan. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in the term loan or the credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms may result in a default under one or more of the material agreements. •We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We believe that we have adequate reserves in the event that a taxing authority differs with positions we have taken, however, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected. •Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called "goodwill" if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" established accounting and reporting requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill attributable to each of our reporting units be tested at least annually (absent any impairment indicators). The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis (absent any impairment indicators), we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually during the last fiscal quarter of each year. Impairment adjustments recognized after adoption, if any, generally are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. •Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery caused injuries, mechanical failures or transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. No assurance can be given either that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. 15 •The loss of a group of key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our current and future executive officers, senior management and management personnel at the companies. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a company, our operations could be adversely affected. We do not maintain key man life insurance. •We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facilities and term loan. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in the term loan or the credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms may result in a default under one or more of the material agreements. •The loss of productivity, either at the corporate office or operating level, could adversely affect our business. Our business is primarily driven by labor. The ability to perform contracts at acceptable margins depends on our ability to deliver substantial labor productivity. We cannot guarantee that productivity will continue at acceptable levels at our corporate office and our operating subsidiaries for a particular period of time. With the increased activity of de-levering our balance sheet and the uncertainty in the market there is an increased difficulty in maintaining morale and focus of employees. The loss of productivity could adversely affect the margins on existing contracts or the ability to obtain new contracts. •Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are always claims and litigation. Latent defect litigation is a normal course for residential home builders in some parts of the country. Legislation in other states indicates such litigation may increase in other markets. There is also the inherent claims and litigation risk of the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road everyday. Those claims and litigation risks are managed through safety programs, insurance programs, litigation management at the corporate office and the local level and attorneys and law firms throughout the country. Nevertheless, claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed and some for amounts in excess of their value or amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. Given our size, with many contracts and employees, there can be periods of time where a disproportionate amount of the claims and litigation may be concluded in the same quarter or year. If these matters resolve near the same time then the cumulative effect can be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect litigation is increasing in states where we perform work. Such increases can put additional pressure on the profitability of the residential segment of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 