Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. Existence of a controlling shareholder. A majority of our outstanding common stock is owned by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. ("Tontine"). As a result, Tontine can control some of our affairs, including the election of directors who in turn appoint management. Tontine controls any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to our corporate charter and approval of any potential merger or sale of all or substantially all assets, divisions, or the Company itself. This control also gives Tontine the ability to bring matters to a shareholder vote that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders, Tontine also controls decisions requiring shareholder approval affecting our capital structure, such as the issuance or repurchase of capital stock, the issuance or repayment of debt, and the declaration of dividends. Tontine's interests, at times, may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. Additionally, Tontine is in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our controlling shareholder has announced its intention to explore alternatives for the disposition of its holdings in our Company. On November 10, 2008, Tontine, our controlling shareholder, announced that it has begun to explore alternatives for the disposition of its holdings in our Company, including both common stock and a $25.0 million term loan. Our credit agreements contain provisions for default in the event of a change in control. Similarly, certain of our financial arrangements and employment contracts contain provisions that will be triggered or accelerated upon the occurrence of a change of control event. Tontine, 14 Table of Contents together with its affiliates, owns approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock. Should Tontine sell its position in the Company to a single shareholder or an affiliated group of shareholders, a change in control event would occur, causing us to be in default under our credit agreements and triggering the change of control provisions in certain of our employment contracts. Tontine also holds our $25.0 million term loan due on May 12, 2013, which may or may not be negotiated for repayment in connection with Tontine's exploration process or under the terms of a potential sale of the Company. Availability of net operating losses may be reduced by a change in control. A change in ownership, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, could reduce the availability of net operating losses for federal and state income tax purposes. Should Tontine sell its position in IES to a single shareholder or an affiliated group of shareholders, a change in ownership could occur. In addition a change in ownership could occur resulting from the purchase of common stock by an existing or a new 5% shareholder as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382. Downturns in the construction industry could adversely affect our business because our business is dependent on levels of new construction activity. The majority of our business involves the installation of electrical and communication systems in newly constructed and renovated buildings, plants and residences. The construction industry is cyclical and during calendar year 2008 has experienced a downturn in levels of housing starts, which has affected our business and results of operations. Our ability to maintain or increase revenues from new installation services in fiscal year 2009 will be impacted by the number of new construction starts and renovations during the period, which will likely correlate with the cyclical nature of the construction industry and the overall United States economy. The number of new construction starts and renovations during fiscal year 2009 will be affected by local economic conditions, and other factors, including the following: •availability of and access to credit by our customers; •interest rates and other factors affecting the availability and cost of financing; •employment and income levels; •tax implications for homebuyers and companies; •consumer confidence; •housing demand; and •commodity costs such as copper, aluminum, steel, lumber and fuel. A majority of our business is focused in the southeastern and southwestern portions of the United States, concentrating our exposure to local economic conditions in those regions. The Residential construction portion of our business experienced negative growth and cost pressures throughout our 2008 fiscal year which affected the gross profit of that portion of our business by approximately $14.3 million. Our Commercial and Industrial markets remained stable during fiscal 2008. To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 15 Table of Contents We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales and that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms would materially adversely affect our business. The highly competitive nature of our industry could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The electrical contracting industry is highly fragmented and is served by many small, owner-operated private companies. There are also several large private regional companies and a small number of large public companies from which we face competition in the industry. In the future, we could also face competition from new competitors entering these markets because electrical contracting has a relatively low capital requirement for entry. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. The availability and cost of surety bonds affect our ability to enter into new contracts and our margins on those engagements. Many of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a surety. Those bonds guarantee the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. We obtain our surety bonds from our two primary surety providers; however, there is no commitment from either of these providers to guarantee our ability to issue bonds for projects as they are required. Our ability to access this bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety providers. We believe that our relationships with these providers will allow us to provide surety bonds if and when they are required; however, we cannot guarantee that such bonds will be available. In prior years, we were subject to limitations on the size of individual bonds from our primary surety provider; however, that provision was removed in an October 2007 amendment to our surety agreement. Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in residential construction. Untimely weather delay from rain, heat, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Additionally, cost increases in construction materials such as steel, aluminum, copper and lumber can alter the rate of new construction. The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of fuel, labor and materials, including copper wire, may vary significantly from 16 Table of Contents the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. Commodity costs may fluctuate materially and we may not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices and if the cost associated with commodities such as copper, aluminum, steel, fuel and certain plastics increase, our expected profit may decline under that contract. There is a shortage of qualified electricians. Since the majority of our work is performed by electricians, this shortage may negatively impact our business, including our ability to grow. There is a shortage of qualified electricians in the United States. In order to conduct our business, it is necessary to employ electricians and have those electricians qualified in the states where they do business. Our ability to increase productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled electricians required to meet our needs. Accordingly, there can be no assurance, among other things, that: •we will be able to secure and maintain the skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently; •our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the skilled labor supply; and •we will be able to secure and maintain the skilled labor force necessary to implement our planned growth. We may experience difficulties in managing future consolidations. We have recently completed a strategic reorganization across our business under which we consolidated many of our administrative and operating functions. In the future, we may undergo additional consolidations. In the event we do implement further restructuring programs we cannot guarantee that our systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations, including the timely receipt of financial information. We may experience difficulties in managing our billings and collections. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain milestones and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those milestones have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which, if experienced across several large projects, could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facility. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms and requirements of our credit facility may result in a default under one or more of our material agreements which could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called "goodwill" if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" establishes accounting and reporting requirements for goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill attributable to each of our reporting units be tested at least annually. The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis, we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually during the last fiscal quarter of each year. Impairment adjustments recognized after adoption, if any, generally are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. The vendors who make up our supply chain may be adversely affected by the current operating environment and credit market conditions. We are dependent upon the vendors within our supply chain to maintain a steady supply of inventory, parts and materials under our existing just-in-time inventory system. Many of our divisions are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and significant supply discrepancies could adversely affect our operations. Under current market conditions, including both the construction slowdown and the tightening credit market, it is possible that one or more of our suppliers will be unable to meet the terms of our operating agreements due to financial hardships, liquidity issues or other reasons related to the market slowdown. Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery-caused injuries, mechanical failures and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves and, accordingly, we effectively self-insure for much of our exposures. No assurance can be given that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations; nor can we assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. Our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objective will be met. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effectiveness of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, are being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. 18 Table of Contents A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be satisfied. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give reasonable assurance that they are effective and achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that our judgments can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of simple human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur without being detected. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008 and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2008, to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. For more information on our internal controls, see Part II, Item 9A. "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting." We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by the tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We have established reserves to be used in the event that a taxing authority differs with the positions we have taken; however, in the event that disagreement over our tax positions does arise, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected. Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are frequently claims and litigation. There are also inherent claims and litigation risk associated with the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road everyday. Claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed for amounts in excess of their value or in excess of the amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. However, there may be periods of time in which a disproportionate amount of our claims and litigation are concluded in the same quarter or year. If multiple matters are resolved during a given period, then the cumulative effect of these matters may be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect claims could expand. Latent defect litigation is normal for residential home builders in some parts of the country; however, such litigation is increasing in certain states where we perform work. Also, in recent years, latent defect litigation has expanded to aspects of the Commercial market. Should we experience similar increases in our latent defect claims and litigation, additional pressure may be placed on the profitability of the Residential and Commercial segments of our business. The loss of a group or several key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and management personnel at our divisions. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level 19 Table of Contents will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. We have employment agreements in place with our executives and many of our key senior leadership; however, such employment agreements cannot guarantee that we will not lose key employees, nor prevent them from competing against us, which is often dependent on state and local employment laws. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a division, we may not be able to recruit suitable replacements at comparable salaries or at all, which could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, we do not maintain key man life insurance for members of our management. The loss of productivity, either at the corporate office or operating level, could adversely affect our business. Our business is primarily driven by labor. The ability to perform contracts at acceptable margins depends on our ability to deliver substantial labor productivity. We cannot guarantee that our productivity will continue at acceptable levels at our corporate office or at our divisions for a particular period of time. With the increased activity of de-levering our balance sheet and the uncertainty in the market, there is an increased difficulty in maintaining morale and focus of employees. The loss of productivity could adversely affect the margins on existing contracts and our ability to obtain new contracts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 