D. Risk Factors Our business and results of operations are dependent on the historically cyclical domestic and international coal markets. As substantially all of our revenue is derived from the sales of coal, our business and operating results are dependent on domestic and international demand for coal. The domestic and international coal markets are cyclical and experience volatility in supply and demand. The coal markets are influenced by a number of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the conditions of the PRC and global economy and demand fluctuations in key industries that have high demand for coal. Fluctuations in supply of and demand for coal affect coal prices, which in turn affect our operational and financial performance. The average selling price of our coal products was RMB349.5, RMB341.8 and RMB409.0 per tonne in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our products have historically experienced substantial price fluctuations, and we believe that we will continue to experience volatility in pricing. In addition, as domestic coal prices have reached record-high levels in 2008, we cannot assure you that we will continue to sell our coal as profitably as at present. The demand for coal is primarily affected by the global economic development and coal demand by power generation, chemical, metallurgy and construction materials industries. In addition, the availability and prices of alternative sources of energy to coal, such as natural gas, oil, hydropower and nuclear power as well as international shipping costs also affect demand for coal. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of coal reserves, the transportation capacity of coal transportation railways, the volume of domestic and international coal supplies and the type, quality and price of competitors’ coal. Developments in the international coal market may adversely affect our export sales and future operational results. A significant increase in global coal supply or reduction in coal demand for our coal by foreign or domestic electricity generation or metallurgy industries may have an adverse effect on coal prices, which in turn, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is dependent on our major customers. Prior to 2004, Shandong Power and Fuel Company was our largest customer. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, Huadian Power International Corporation Limited (“Huadian International”) was our largest customer. We supplied 5.6 million, 4.9 million and 5.4 million tonnes of coal to Huadian International in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, which represented 13.7%, 11.5% and 12.2% of our net sales of coal in the same periods, respectively. Substantially all of Huadian International’s coal purchases were supplied to Zouxian Electric Power Plant (“Zouxian Power Plant”). The portion of our coal sales, conducted through Huadian International, to Zouxian Power Plant accounted for 13.4%, 11.3% and 12.1% of our net sales of coal in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Zouxian Power Plant used approximately 8.6 million tonnes of coal in 2007. We estimate that we supplied approximately 83.6%, 92.9% and 60.8% of Zouxian Power Plant’s annual coal requirement in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our sales volume and net sales of coal generated from Zouxian Power Plant increased from 2006 to 2007. However, Zouxian Power Plant underwent a capacity expansion in the fourth quarter of 2006 and therefore, significantly increased its coal demand in 2007. As a result, the coal that we supplied decreased as a percentage of Zouxian Power Plant’s total coal demand in 2007. We believe we will remain the principal coal supplier to Zouxian Power Plant because (i) our geographic proximity to Zouxian Power Plant, (ii) our railway network is the only network with direct access to Zouxian Power Plant and (iii) Zouxian Power Plant’s boilers have been custom designed to use the type of coal that we produce. Because purchases by Zouxian Power Plant compose a large portion of our revenue, any adverse developments at Zouxian Power Plant could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is dependent on short-term sales contracts and letters of intent. Approximately 87.0%, 87.3% and 86.9% of our sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were derived from sales contracts or letters of intent. These sales contracts and letters of intent generally specify the quantity and delivery schedule of purchases for a term generally not exceeding one year. Coal prices under the letters of intent are generally determined subsequently at the time of sale. An omission of a material term may make a letter of intent unenforceable. Any changes in regulations, cost or availability of labor, raw materials or shipping and foreign exchange rates during the period between the formation and performance of these letters of intent may affect our ability to perform the contract. 6 Table of Contents Historically, we and our customers have carried out a significant majority of the transactions contemplated under the letters of intent we enter into. However, a sudden and significant increase in the proportion of unperformed letters of intents or unrealized sales could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, as the price of coal sold pursuant to such letters of intent is generally determined at the time of sale, any significant downturn in the market price of coal could have an immediate and adverse impact on our results of operations. Our products may be subject to governmental price control measures, which may adversely affect our profitability. The PRC Government has implemented a series of measures to overhaul historical mechanisms to control the purchase and pricing of coal with the aim to encourage market practices. As a result, the domestic coal industry has become increasingly market-driven since 2002. The PRC Government continues to indirectly influence coal prices through the regulation of the closely-related power generation industry, primarily through the allocation of national railway capacities and the announcement of coal pricing policies that are intended to align the use of coal resources with national production policies. Prior to 2006, the PRC Government continued to implement temporary measures to prevent and control significant fluctuations in thermal coal prices. As a result, thermal coal contract prices for certain of our major consumers were lower than market prices during the periods these price controls were in effect. We cannot assure you that developments in governmental regulations, policies and measures will not have an adverse affect on our business and profitability. To ensure the uninterrupted operation of power plants during the peak season for electricity demand in 2008, the provincial governments of Shandong and Shaanxi have implemented temporary measures to control the supply of thermal coal. The measures promulgated by Shandong government require (i) all existing thermal coal contracts between coal enterprises and power plants to be strictly enforced; (ii) coal producers in Shandong Province to increase their collective supply of thermal coal to power plants in Shandong Province on a monthly basis by 2.56 million tonnes in July, August and September of 2008; and (iii) the coal provided pursuant to these measures to be offered at a price that is RMB10 lower than prevailing coal prices in June 2008. The government of Shaanxi has placed a price moratorium on thermal coal until September 15, 2008. In each of the three months during which these measures will be effective, we estimate that we will provide an additional 1.5 million tonnes of coal to power plants in Shandong Province. We cannot assure you that relevant government agencies will not impose additional price restrictions, which may have a negative impact on our operations, pricing and profitability. Our product delivery relies on the PRC’s railway transportation system. We rely on the PRC national railway system and our railway network to delivery coal to our customers. Approximately 54.4%, 50.2% and 37.3% of our total net sales of coal in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, were derived from sales of coal transported on the PRC national railway system (excluding coal sold to Zouxian Power Plant which was transported entirely on our own railway network). The limited transportation capacity of the national railway system is not sufficient to meet domestic coal transportation requirements, and railway regulators allocate use of the national railway system. Our domestic customers are mainly located in Eastern China, where the railway system is relatively more advanced than other parts of the PRC. In addition to railway systems, we use major coal shipping ports along the eastern coast of China to ship coal to our customers located in the coastal region of China and overseas. We cannot assure you that we will continue to secure sufficient railway and port capacity to transport our coal or that we will not experience any material delays in transporting our products or substantial increases in transportation costs as a result of insufficient rail capacity. The coal reserve data in this Annual Report are only estimates. The coal reserve data provided by us are only estimates which may differ materially from the actual reserves. Our reserve estimates may change substantially if new information subsequently 7 Table of Contents becomes available. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves, which require the consideration of a number of factors, assumptions and variables, which may be beyond our control and cannot be ascertained despite due investigation. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from our long-term business and operational plans, which are based on our coal reserve estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not adjust our coal reserve estimates downward in the future, and in such event, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is intensifying, and we may not be able to continue to compete effectively. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including pricing, production capacity, coal quality and specifications, transportation capacity, cost structure and brand recognition. Our coal business competes in the domestic and international markets with other large domestic and international coal producers. Ongoing consolidation in the PRC coal industry has increased the level of competition in our industry. Our overseas competitors may have stronger financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do and have brand names with wider recognition in the domestic and international markets. The quality of our coal products positions us favorable against our competitors. However, we cannot assure you that we will continue to compete favorably due to quality improvements by our competitors. We also cannot assure you that the development of the PRC railway transportation network will not diminish our geographic advantage of being located in Eastern China, the area of PRC with the strongest coal demand. We believe that we competed favorably on transportation capability and costs because our principal competitors are located mainly in Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, where there are occasional rail capacity shortages and significant costs that have to be incurred to transport coal from these regions to Eastern China. However, improvements in the PRC national rail network will reduce our competitive advantage in transportation. For example, the PRC Government is planning to construct additional railways to transport coal from northern and northwestern China to Eastern China. Accordingly, the completion of these projects may increase the supply of coal available to customers in Eastern China, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions. As with all underground mining operations, our operations are affected by certain risks inherent in mining, such as a deterioration in the quality or variations in the thickness of faults and/or coal seams, pressure in mine openings, mine water discharge, weather, flooding and other natural disasters. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as unexpected maintenance problems or equipment failures. Although we conduct geological investigations on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to address the mining conditions of each mine, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of any adverse mining conditions would not endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. Underground mining is also subject to certain risks such as fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust, roof collapses and ground falls. We can not assure you that the occurrence of such events or conditions would not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our results of operations depend on our ability to acquire or develop new coal mines or coal reserves. The recoverable coal reserves in our existing mines decline as we produce coal. As our ability to significantly increase our production capacity at existing mines is limited, our ability to increase our coal production will depend on the production of our recently developed coal reserves, acquisitions of new mines or the expansion of our existing coal mines. We acquired Jining III Coal Mine and Southland Colliery in 2001 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, we acquired from our Controlling Shareholder 95.67% of the equity interest in Heze Nenghua, followed by the acquisition of the mining rights of Zhaolou Coal Mine through Heze Nenghua in May 2008. This acquisition was approved by our shareholders and the relevant government authorities. Zhaolou Coal Mine is expected to commence preliminary operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. In February 2007, 8 Table of Contents our Company acquired 100% of the equity interest of Shanxi Nenghua, which was held by our Controlling Shareholder and Lunan Fertilizer Plant. Tianchi Coal Mine, which is owned by Shanxi Nenghua, commenced operations in November 2006. We are also in the process of establishing a joint venture company for a coal mining project in Yushuwan, Shaanxi Province. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition targets or acquire these targets on competitive terms. We may not be able to successfully develop new coal mines or expand our existing ones in accordance with our development plans or at all. Failure to timely or successfully acquire suitable targets on competitive terms, or successfully complete the development of new coal mines or to expand our existing coal mines could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The acquisition of new mines by PRC coal companies and related licenses and permits, either within China or overseas, is subject to the approval of the PRC Government. Delays in securing or failure to secure the relevant PRC Government approvals, licenses or permits as well as any adverse change in government policies may impair our expansion plans, which may materially and adversely affect our profitability and growth prospects. In connection with our overseas expansion, we could encounter unforeseen problems due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations or suffer foreign exchange losses in relations to overseas investments. We cannot assure you that our overseas expansion or investments will be successful. We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance to cover these accidents. Our coal mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or unstable geological structures. As a result, we, like other coal mining companies, have experienced accidents that have resulted in property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities, provide on-the-job safety training for our employees, and in accordance with relevant laws, set aside approximately 2.0% of each employee’s total remuneration for personal injury insurance, there can be no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. We do not currently maintain fire, casualty or other property insurance for our properties, equipment or inventories, other than for our vehicles. In addition, we do not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties, other than third party liability insurance with respect to vehicles. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to allocate additional funds for land subsidence. Underground mining may cause the land above underground mining sites to subside. Depending on the circumstances and conditions of each site, we may relocate inhabitants above certain underground mining sites prior to the commencement of mining, or we may compensate the inhabitants for any losses or damages caused by land subsidence after the underground sites have been mined. We may also be required to set aside provisions for costs associated with land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation or environmental protection to mitigate the effects of our mining activities. An estimate of these costs is recorded in the period in which the obligation is identified and is deducted as an expense in our income statement in proportion to the coal actually extracted. Payment for these costs is funded by working capital and amounted to RMB593.5 million in 2007. The provision for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection costs is determined by our directors based on past occurrences of land subsidence. However, the provision is only an estimate and may be adjusted to reflect the actual effects of our mining activities on the land above our mining sites. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such estimates are accurate or that our land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection costs will not substantially increase in the future or that the PRC Government will not impose new fees in respect of land subsidence, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As a PRC coal producer, we are subject to significant, extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations: • impose fees for the discharge of waste substances; • require provisions for reclamation and rehabilitation; • impose fines for serious environmental offenses; and • authorize the PRC Government to close any facility that it determines has failed to comply with environmental regulations and suspend operations that cause excessive environmental damage. Our coal mining operations produce waste water, gas emission and solid waste materials. The PRC Government has tightened enforcement of applicable laws and regulations and adopted more stringent environmental standards. Our budgeted amounts of capital expenditure for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient, and we may need to allocate additional funds for this purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. In addition, China is a signatory to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which are intended to limit greenhouse gas emissions. On March 14, 2006, the PRC Government released the outline of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan for National Economic and Social Development that sets goals to decrease the amount of energy consumed per unit of GDP by 20 percent and to reduce the emission of certain major pollutants by 10 percent. If efforts to reduce energy consumption and control greenhouse gas emission reduce coal consumption, our revenue would decrease and our business would be adversely affected. PRC quotas for coal exports may adversely affect the level of our coal export sales. Our export sales (not including the sales by Yancoal Australia) accounted for 25.8%, 19.5% and 4.3% of our net sales of coal in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. In January 2004, the PRC Government promulgated a regulation entitled “Measures for the Administration of Quotas for Coal Export,” which became effective on July 1, 2004. Pursuant to the regulation, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce will determine the total volume of the PRC’s export quota and allocate the quota among authorized coal exporters. The announcement of the export quota available for each fiscal year must be made no later than October 31st of the prior year. After the export quota has been announced, the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce will begin accepting written applications from authorized coal exporters for an allocation of the following year’s quota. This regulation did not have a material adverse effect on our export sales in 2007 because our export agents have historically received an allocation of the export quota sufficient to satisfy our export volume. However, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, the export quota may have on the level of our export coal sales in 2008 and later years. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, our export sales of coal (not including the sales by Yancoal Australia) accounted for approximately 10.2%, 9.9% and 3.2%, respectively, of the PRC’s total coal export. If the quota for national coal exports is reduced, the level of our export sales in future periods could be affected, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not have an export permit and consequently, do not have direct export rights for our coal. As a result, all of our export sales must be made through intermediary export agents. We use export agent services provided by China Coal Energy Group Company, China National Minerals Import and Export Company Limited and Shanxi Coal Import and Export Group Company (collectively, the “Export Agency Companies”). The volume, coal specifications, pricing and final destination of our export sales are determined collectively by us, the Export Agency Companies and our overseas customers. Although we have applied to the PRC Central Government for direct export rights with the assistance of the Shandong provincial government, there can be no assurance that we can obtain such rights. If we cannot obtain an export permit granting us direct export rights, we will have to continue to rely on export agents to export our coal. 10 Table of Contents The Controlling Shareholder’s operations have a significant impact on us. As of December 31, 2007, the Controlling Shareholder owned 52.86% of our outstanding shares and thereby its operations have significance impact on us. Pursuant to the regulations of Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Shanghai Stock Exchange on continuing connected transactions and the actual operations of us and the Controlling Shareholder, we completed the necessary review procedures for our continuing connected transactions as required by law and continued or entered into six continuing connected transaction agreements (“Continuing Connected Transaction Agreements”), including the Provision of Materials and Water Supply Agreement, Provision of Electricity Agreement, Provision of Labor and Services Agreement, Provision of Equipment Maintenance and Repair Works Agreement, Provision of Products and Services Agreement and Provision of Administrative Services for Pension Fund and Retirement Benefits Agreement with the Controlling Shareholder in the first quarter of 2006. For details on the execution of the Continuing Connected Transactions, see “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transaction”. Any material financial or operational developments experienced by the Controlling Shareholder which lead to the disruption of its operations or impairs its ability to perform the Continuing Connected Transactions could materially affect our operations and future prospects. Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to the PRC. A significant majority of our assets and operations are located in the PRC, as such, we are subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including, but not limited to, the following: • The central and local governments of the PRC have historically supported the continued development and operation of the PRC coal industry. A change in the current policies that are favorable to us may adversely affect the flexibility that we have and our ability to expand our business operations or increase our profitability. • Under current PRC regulatory requirements, our capital expenditure allocated for the development of new coal mine projects require PRC Government approvals. Failure to obtain timely approval for our projects may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. • On July 21, 2005, China adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect the value of our net assets, earnings and any declared dividends when translated or converted into U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. RMB fluctuations mainly affect (a) our income from coal exports denominated in foreign currencies; (b) the conversion of foreign currency deposits; and (c) our costs of imported equipment and fittings. • The PRC Government will continue to reform the PRC economic system. A number of reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to refinement and adjustments. Other political, economic and social factors that affect us may also be modified by reform measures, and we may be adversely affected by the effect of these reforms. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC Government including, but not limited to, changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof) related to, measures to control inflation, tax policies and rates, currency conversion restrictions and tariff and other import restrictions. • Since 1997, the PRC Government has promulgated a series of laws and regulations related to the overall development of the PRC economy. Despite efforts to develop the PRC legal system, it is continuously evolving and the enforcement and interpretation of certain laws remains uncertain. Even where adequate law exists, enforcement of existing laws or contracts may be inconsistent and arbitrary, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The lack of precedents in PRC’s judiciary creates additional uncertainty as to the possible outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to evolving government policies and political changes. 11 Table of Contents • A new Labor Contract Law of the PRC became effective on January 1, 2008, which imposes more stringent requirements for signing labor contracts, paying remuneration, stipulating probation and penalties and terminating labor contracts. We cannot assure you that efforts taken to comply with the requirements of this new Labor Contract Law will not adversely affect our business or operations. Our coal operations are extensively regulated by the PRC Government and government regulations may limit our activities and adversely affect our business operations. Our coal operations, like other PRC energy companies, are subject to extensive regulation by the PRC Government. National governmental authorities, such as the National Development and Reform Commission, the State Environmental Protection Administration, the Ministry of Land and Resources, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety and the State Bureau of Taxation as well as corresponding provincial and local authorities and agencies exercise extensive control over various aspects of the mining and transportation (including rail and sea transport) of coal in China. Oversight from these authorities and agencies affects the following aspects of our operations: • the exploration, exploitation, use and granting of mining rights; • rehabilitation of land surrounding mining sites after mining ; • recovery rate requirements; • pricing of our coal transportation services; • taxes and fees for our industry and levies imposed by government authorities, as promulgated from time to time; • application of our capital investments; • export quotas and procedures; • pension fund appropriations; • preferential tax treatment; and • environmental and safety standards. As a result, our ability to execute our business strategies or to carry out or expand our business operations may be limited. We may experience substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, permits and licenses in connection with our business operations. Our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in the PRC Government’s regulations and policies related to the coal industry. The adoption of new legislation or regulations, or the new interpretation of existing legislation or regulations, may materially and adversely affect our operations, our cost structure or demand for our products. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may cause us to substantially change our existing operations or incur significant costs. 