Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. Existence of a controlling shareholder. A majority of our outstanding common stock is owned by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively, “Tontine”). On July 21, 2011, Tontine filed an amended Schedule 13D indicating its ownership level of 57.4%. As a result, Tontine can control most of our affairs, including the election of our directors, who in turn appoint executive management, and can control any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to our corporate charter and approval of any potential merger or sale of all or substantially all assets, divisions, or the Company itself. This control also gives Tontine the ability to bring matters to a shareholder vote that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders or stakeholders. Additionally, Tontine is in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or act as suppliers or customers of the Company. Availability of net operating losses may be reduced by a change in ownership. A change in ownership, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, could reduce the availability of net operating losses, (“NOLs”), for federal and state income tax purposes. Should Tontine sell or exchange all or a portion of its position in IES, a change in ownership could occur. Tontine is party to a Registration Rights Agreement with the Company under which it has the ability, subject to certain restrictions, to demand registration of its shares in order to permit unrestricted sales of those shares. Tontine has indicated to the Company that it may seek to register some or all of its shares in the near future. A change in ownership could also result from the purchase of common stock by an existing or a new 5% shareholder as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382. Currently, we have approximately $313 million of federal NOLs that are available to use to offset taxable income, exclusive of NOLs from the amortization of additional tax goodwill. Should a change in ownership occur, all NOLs incurred prior to the change in ownership would be subject to limitation imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, which would substantially reduce the amount of NOL currently available to offset taxable income. The Company is currently evaluating steps it may take to protect its federal NOLs, including evaluating implementing a tax benefit protection plan that would be designed to deter an acquisition of the Company’s stock in excess of a threshold amount that could trigger a change of control within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 382. If implemented, such a plan would be designed to effectively dilute the ownership of such an acquirer through the offering of rights to the Company’s other shareholders that could be exercised upon the acquirer’s purchase of the Company’s stock in excess of the threshold amount. The Company may pursue such a plan or other alternatives to protecting its NOLs in the event the Company deems it appropriate, although there can be no assurance that such a plan will be implemented or that, if enacted, it would be effective in deterring a change of control or protecting the NOLs. To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales or, that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our 13 Table of Contents indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facility. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms and requirements of our credit facility may result in a default under one or more of our material agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition. The highly competitive nature of our industries could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The industries in which we compete are highly fragmented and are served by many small, owner-operated private companies. There are also several large private regional companies and a small number of large public companies from which we face competition in these industries. In the future, we could also face competition from new competitors entering these markets because certain segments, such as our electrical contracting services, have a relatively low barrier for entry while other segments, such as our services for mission critical infrastructure, have attractive dynamics. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that we may acquire. We may engage in acquisitions and dispositions of operations, assets and investments from time to time in the future. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired assets or operations or if we make untimely or 14 Table of Contents unfavorable dispositions of operations or investments, it could negatively impact the market value of our common stock. Additionally, any future acquisition or disposition may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our common stock following any such acquisition or disposition may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our financial condition, results of operations and trading price of our common stock. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure or sale of additional facilities. Beginning in 2011, we increased our focus on a number of initiatives to return the Company to profitability. Included in these initiatives was the closure or sale of a number of facilities within our Commercial & Industrial segment, including the sale or closure of all or portions of our Commercial facilities in Arizona, Florida, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada and Texas, Industrial facility in Louisiana, and our Communications facility in Maryland. We continue to evaluate the performance of the remaining operations. If we were to elect to dispose of a substantial portion of any of our segments, the realized values of such actions could be substantially less than current book values, which would likely result in a material adverse impact on our financial results. The availability and cost of surety bonds affect our ability to enter into new contracts and our margins on those engagements. Many of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a surety. Those bonds guarantee the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. We obtain surety bonds from one primary surety provider; however, there is no commitment from this provider to guarantee our ability to issue bonds for projects as they are required. Our ability to access this bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety provider. Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in the Residential and Commercial & Industrial segments. Untimely weather delay from rain, heat, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Additionally, cost increases in construction materials such as steel, aluminum, copper and lumber can alter the rate of new construction. The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of fuel, labor and materials, including copper wire, may vary significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. Commodity costs may fluctuate materially, and we may not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices, and if the cost associated with commodities such as copper, aluminum, steel, fuel and certain plastics increase, losses may be incurred. 15 Table of Contents We may experience difficulties in managing our billings and collections. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain milestones and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those milestones have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which, if experienced across several large projects, could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires that goodwill attributable to each of our reporting units be tested at least annually. The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis, we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually as of September 30. Impairment adjustments, if any, are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. The vendors who make up our supply chain may be adversely affected by the current operating environment and credit market conditions. We are dependent upon the vendors within our supply chain to maintain a steady supply of inventory, parts and materials. Many of our divisions are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and significant supply disruptions could adversely affect our operations. Under recent market conditions, including both the construction slowdown and the tightening credit market, it is possible that one or more of our suppliers will be unable to meet the terms of our operating agreements due to financial hardships, liquidity issues or other reasons related to the prolonged market recovery. Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery-caused injuries, mechanical failures and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves. No assurance can be given that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations; nor can we provide assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. Our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. On a quarterly basis we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effectiveness of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, are being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. 16 Table of Contents A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give reasonable assurance that they are effective and achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that our judgments can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur without being detected. We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by the tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We have established reserves for tax positions that we have determined to be less likely than not to be sustained by taxing authorities. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected in the event that disagreement over our tax positions does arise. Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are frequently claims and litigation. There are also inherent claims and litigation risk associated with the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road every day. Claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed for amounts in excess of their value or in excess of the amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. However, there may be periods of time in which a disproportionate amount of our claims and litigation are concluded in the same quarter or year. If multiple matters are resolved during a given period, then the cumulative effect of these matters may be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect claims could expand. Latent defect litigation is normal for residential home builders in some parts of the country; however, such litigation is increasing in certain states where we perform work. Also, in recent years, latent defect litigation has expanded to aspects of the commercial market. Should we experience similar increases in our latent defect claims and litigation, additional pressure may be placed on the profitability of the Residential and Commercial & Industrial segments of our business. The loss of a group or several key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and management personnel at our divisions. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. We have employment agreements in place with certain of our senior leaders; however, such employment agreements can neither guarantee that we will not lose key employees, nor prevent them from competing against us, which is often dependent on state and local employment laws. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a division, we may not be able to recruit suitable replacements at comparable salaries or at all, which could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, we do not maintain key man life insurance for members of our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 