D. Risk Factors Our business and profitability are affected by global economic conditions. The global economic downturn has adversely affected economies around the world and businesses worldwide, including those in China, and the extent and timing of recovery are uncertain. Our revenue and profit in the first three quarters of 2009 were diminished by weak economic conditions, extreme market volatility and decreased demand for coal, particularly from industrial customers. As a result, our coal prices and margins in 2009 were lower than in the previous year. Although economic conditions in China have improved since the fourth quarter of 2009, competition for market share and pressure on profit margins may intensify again if there is a renewed decline in the global economy, or if confidence in economic recovery wanes. The occurrence of the foregoing may have a negative impact on our suppliers and customers, which in turn may affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 6 Table of Contents Our business and results of operations depend on the volatile domestic and international coal markets. As substantially all our revenue is derived from sales of coal, supply and demand for coal in the domestic and international coal markets have a significant effect on our business and operating results. The domestic and international coal markets are cyclical and have historically experienced price volatility, which reflect PRC and global economic conditions and fluctuations in coal demand from industries with high coal consumption, among other factors. Difficult economic conditions in 2009 caused average coal prices to decline from record high levels in 2008, which in turn negatively affected our operational and financial performance. The average selling price of our coal products was RMB409.0, RMB640.2 and RMB507.4 per tonne in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Although demand for coal in China and worldwide has substantially recovered, along with coal prices, since the second half of 2009 because of improvements in global macroeconomic conditions, we cannot assure you that demand for and prices of coal will not decline again, the occurrence of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Global coal demand correlates strongly with the global economy and the performance of the power generation, chemical, metallurgy and construction materials industries. In addition, the availability and prices of alternative energy sources to coal, as well as international shipping costs, also affect demand for coal. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of coal reserves, the transportation capacity of coal. Within China, coal is generally transported on railways and internationally through seaports, the level of domestic and international coal supplies and the type, quality and price of coal from other coal producers. Developments in the international coal market may adversely affect our overseas sales, which we expect to increase following the expansion of our Australian operations. A significant increase in global coal supply or reduction in demand for coal from key consuming industries may decrease coal prices, which in turn, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is dependent on short-term sales contracts and letters of intent. Approximately 86.9%, 87.5% and 86.4% of our net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, were derived from short-term sales contracts or letters of intent. These sales contracts and letters of intent generally specify the quantity and delivery schedule of purchases for a term generally not exceeding one year. Coal prices under the letters of intent are generally determined subsequently at the time of sale to reflect prevailing market prices. If we experience a weak coal pricing environment that results in a decline in coal prices at the time of actual sale, our revenue and profitability would be reduced. Historically, our customers have performed a significant majority of the sales contemplated by the letters of intent we enter into. However, a sudden and significant increase in the proportion of unperformed letters of intent or unrealized sales could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, and we may not be able to find purchasers in the short term to replace our lost sales. Furthermore, any changes in the cost or availability of labor, raw materials or transportation or changes in foreign exchange rates during the period between the formation and performance of these sales contracts and letters of intent may affect our ability to perform our contractual obligations or the profitability of our sales. Our products may be subject to governmental price control measures, which may adversely affect our profitability. The PRC government has implemented a series of measures to overhaul historical price and supply controls on coal with the aim to develop stronger market mechanisms in the PRC coal market. Although the PRC government continues to support the increasing market orientation of the PRC coal market, the PRC government may intervene in the domestic coal market from time to time through the use of macroeconomic measures to stabilize the market and achieve national social and economic goals. In 2008, the National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC, imposed temporary price caps on coal prices when coal prices were at record highs to ensure uninterrupted operations at power plants during the peak season for electricity demand. Similarly the provincial governments of Shandong and Shaanxi implemented temporary measures in the same year to ensure the market supply of thermal coal by strictly enforcing coal supply contracts, mandating increases in coal supplies and setting a moratoriums on thermal coal price increases. Even though the above measures were abolished in 2008 and no similar measures were implemented in 2009, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not intervene in the domestic coal market in the future, which may limit the degree of control we have over certain aspects of our business and have a negative impact on our operations, pricing and profitability. 7 Table of Contents We rely on the PRC national railway system to deliver our products. We rely on the PRC national railway system, as well as our railway network, to deliver coal to customers. Approximately 37.3%, 32.9% and 31.9% of our total sales volume of coal in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, were transported on the PRC national railway system (coal exclusive of sales where the coal sold was transported exclusively on our own railway network). Although the PRC government has taken steps to upgrade and expand the national railway system, its current transportation capacity is generally not sufficient to meet domestic coal transportation requirements. Even though our domestic customers are mainly located in Eastern China, where the railway system is relatively more developed than other regions of China, our ability to deliver coal can potentially be restricted by limitations in transportation capacity. In addition to railway transportation, we use major coal shipping ports along the coast of China to ship coal to customers located along the coastal region of China. We cannot assure you that we will continue to secure sufficient railway and port capacity to deliver our coal or that we will not experience any material delays in deliveries or substantial increases in transportation costs as a result of insufficient railway capacity. The coal reserve data in this annual report are only estimates, which may differ materially from actual results. Our coal reserve data are only estimates, which may differ materially from actual reserves. Our reserve estimates may change substantially if new information becomes available. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves, which require the consideration of a number of factors, assumptions and variables, many of which may be beyond our control and cannot be ascertained despite due investigation. Our actual results of operations may differ materially from our long-term business and operational plans, which are based on our coal reserve estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not adjust our coal reserve estimates downward in the future, and in such event, our long-term production and the useful life of our mines may be materially and adversely affected. Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is intensifying, and we may not be able to maintain our competitiveness. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including pricing, production capacity, coal quality and specifications, transportation capacity, cost structure and brand recognition. Our coal business competes in the domestic and international markets with other large domestic and international coal producers. Ongoing consolidation in the PRC coal industry has increased the level of competition in China. Our competitors may have higher production capacities, stronger brand names and more financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We may not be able to maintain our competitiveness if changes or developments in the market weaken our existing competitive advantages. The quality of our coal products positions us favorable against our competitors. However, we cannot assure you that efforts taken by our competitors to improve the quality of their coal will not erode this advantage. We also cannot assure you that continual improvements in China’s transportation infrastructure, particularly the national railway transportation network, will not diminish our geographic advantage of being located in Eastern China, the region in China with the highest coal demand. We believe that we have competed favorably in terms of transportation capacity and delivery costs. Our principal competitors are located predominately in Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, where there have been occasional rail capacity shortages and the costs of transporting coal to Eastern China are more significant. However, the PRC government has constructed and plans to continue constructing additional railways to transport coal from northern and northwestern China to Eastern China. The completion of these railway projects may increase the supply of coal that can be delivered to customers in Eastern China, increasing the effective supply of coal, which may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our results of operations depend on our ability to continue acquiring or developing suitable coal reserves. The recoverable coal reserves in our existing mines decline as we produce coal. As our ability to significantly increase our production capacity at existing mines is limited, our ability to increase our coal production will depend on our ability to increase production at our recently developed and future coal reserves and acquiring new coal resources. We acquired the mining rights of Zhaolou Coal Mine through Heze Nenghua in May 2008, and commenced production at Zhaolou Coal Mine in December 2009. On December 23, 2009, we completed the acquisition of the entire equity interest in Felix, which has an equity interest in four operational mines and three exploratory mines. In December 2009, we established Ordos Nenghua to manage our investments in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, including a coal mining project. We are also in the process of establishing an associate company for a coal mining project in Yushuwan, Shaanxi Province. 8 Table of Contents The acquisition of new mines by PRC coal companies, either within China or overseas, and the procurement of related licenses and permits are subject to PRC government approval. Delays in securing or failure to secure relevant PRC government approvals, licenses or permits, as well as any adverse change in government policies may hinder our expansion plans, which may materially and adversely affect our profitability and growth prospects. In connection with overseas acquisitions and expansion, we may encounter challenges due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, suffer foreign exchange losses on overseas investments or face political or regulatory obstacles to acquisitions. We cannot assure you that our overseas expansion plans and investments will be successful. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition targets or acquire these targets on competitive terms and in a timely manner. We may not be able to successfully develop new coal mines or expand our existing ones in accordance with our development plans, or at all. Failure to successfully acquire suitable targets on competitive terms, develop new coal mines or expand our existing coal mines could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness and growth prospects. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions. Our operations are subject to certain risks inherent in underground mining, which may affect the safety of our workforce or cost of producing coal. These conditions include roof collapses, deterioration in the quality or variations in the thickness of coal seams, minewater discharge, explosions from methane gas or coal dust, ground falls and other mining hazards. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as maintenance problems or equipment failures. Although we conduct geological assessments on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to the mining conditions at each mine, we cannot assure you that adverse mining conditions would not endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or conditions would have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may suffer losses resulting from mining safety incidents. Our coal mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or cave-ins due to unstable geological structures. Like other coal mining companies, we have experienced accidents that have resulted in property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures at our mining sites, trained our employees on occupational safety and maintain liability insurance for personal injuries as well as limited property damage for certain of our operations, we cannot assure you that safety incidents will not occur. Any significant accident, business disruption or safety incident could result in substantial uninsured costs and the diversion of our resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. We may be required to allocate additional funds for land subsidence. Underground mining may cause the land above mining sites to subside. We may compensate inhabitants in areas surrounding our mining sites for their relocation expenses or for any property loss or damage as a result of our mining activities. PRC regulations require us to set aside provisions to cover the costs associated with land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection. An estimated provision is deducted as an expense in our income statement based on the amount of coal actually extracted. In 2009, RMB623.7 million of our provisions for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection was expensed. The provision for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs is determined by our Directors based on past occurrences of land subsidence. However, the provision that we make are only estimates and may be adjusted to reflect the actual effects of our mining activities on the land above and surrounding our mining sites. Therefore, there can be no assurance that such estimates will be accurate or that our land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs will not substantially increase in the future or that the PRC government will not impose new fees or change the basis of calculating compensation and reclamation costs in respect of land subsidence, the occurrence of any of which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. PRC quotas for coal exports may adversely affect the level of our coal export sales. Our export sales conducted from China (not including the sales by Yancoal Australia) accounted for 4.3%, 0.8% and 0.2% of our net sales of coal in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce sets an annual export quota for domestic coal producers and allocate the quota among authorized coal exporters. Our export agents have historically received sufficient export quota to satisfy our export requirements. However, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, the national export quota may have on the level of our future export sales. If the national quota for coal exports is further reduced, our future export sales could be limited, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We do not have an export permit and cannot directly export our coal. All of our export sales must be made through intermediary export agents such as China National Coal Industry Import and Export Corporation, China National Minerals Import and Export Company Limited and Shanxi Coal Import and Export Group Company. The terms of our export sales are determined collectively by us, the export agents and our overseas customers. Although we have applied to the PRC central government for direct export rights with the assistance of the Shandong provincial government, we may not obtain such rights and may have to continue relying on export agents to export our coal from China. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As a PRC coal producer, we are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations: • impose fees for the discharge of waste substances; • require provisions for land reclamation and rehabilitation; • impose fines and other penalties for serious environmental offenses; and • authorize the PRC government to close any facility that fails to comply with environmental regulations and suspend any coal operation that causes excessive environmental damage. Our coal mining operations produce waste water, gas emissions and solid waste materials. The PRC government has tightened enforcement of applicable laws and regulations and adopted more stringent environmental standards. Similarly, our Australian operations are subject to Australia’s stringent environmental regulations. Our budgeted amount for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient, and we may need to allocate additional funds for this purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. In 2006, the PRC government released the outline of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2006 to 2010) for National Economic and Social Development, which sets goals to decrease the amount of energy consumed per unit of GDP by 20% and to reduce the emission of certain major pollutants by 10%. In November 2009, the PRC government announced plans to reduce carbon emissions relative to the size of the PRC economy by 40% to 45% using 2005 emission levels as a baseline. If efforts to increase energy efficiency and control greenhouse gas emissions result in a decrease in coal consumption, our revenue may decrease and our business may be adversely affected. We face pricing volatility and intense competition in our methanol operations. We entered the PRC methanol market and commenced production of coal-based methanol at Tianhao Chemicals and Yulin Nenghua in September 2008 and August 2009, respectively. The methanol business is a cyclical and competitive commodity industry with dynamic supply and demand fundamentals. The price of methanol in China decreased sharply in the second half of 2008 and through the first three quarters of 2009 due to overcapacity from previous years of industry expansion and weak demand from major downstream markets. Methanol prices have since increased as the global demand and economic conditions have improved. As of May 2010, PRC benchmark methanol price increased to RMB2,240 per tonne from RMB1,970 per tonne in May 2009, representing a 13.7% increase. We expect our methanol prices to be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • global and domestic methanol production; • global energy prices; • methanol plant utilization rates, capacity additions and shut downs; • global economic conditions; • our cost structure, product quality, availability of raw materials and utilization of our methanol plants; • compliance costs and environmental risks; and • foreign competition from low cost methanol producers which may have greater resources. As of the end of 2009, we had a total methanol production capacity of 700,000 tonnes. As with developing any new business, we may not achieve optimal utilization of our new facilities as planned. For example, Tianhao Chemicals has not been able to procure a steady supply of key raw material from its sole supplier of coke oven waste gas and has not been able to maintain steady operations as of the date of this annual report, which significantly curtailed its production in 2009. 10 Table of Contents If our projections for the domestic methanol market prove incorrect or if we are unable to otherwise compete effectively, we may not recover the capital and resources we have invested in our methanol operations and realize the intended benefits of our business expansion. In either event, our business and profitability will be adversely affected. Our electric power business is heavily regulated, which may affect our results of operations. We generated RMB185.6 million of revenue from electric power sales, which represented less than 1% of our total revenue in 2009. The significant majority of electricity that we produce is intended for our own use and only a small portion is sold externally. To the extent that we do sell electricity, any decrease in the government-set grid power prices, the price at which power grid operators purchase electricity from power plants, including our power plants, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our results of operations. The operation of coal-fired power plants is subject to increasingly stringent emission standards of the PRC government, which will set new standards for air pollutant emission in 2010 under the Emission Standard of Air Pollutants for Thermal Power Plants. As a result, our compliance costs will likely increase and the profitability of our electric power business may be reduced. We are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates. We have entered into hedging arrangements designed primarily to manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the value of our net assets, capital investments, earnings and any declared dividends when translated or converted into U.S. dollars or Hong Kong dollars. RMB fluctuations mainly affect our income from exports denominated in foreign currencies, our conversion of foreign currency deposits and the cost of imported equipment and components. We face risks stemming from exchange rate fluctuations between the Australian dollar and U.S. dollar because (1) the borrowings we incurred for the Felix acquisition are denominated in U.S. dollars and exchange rate fluctuations can result in exchange losses and (2) Yancoal Australia’s export sales are denominated in U.S. dollars but its functional currency is the Australian dollar and exchange rate fluctuations can affect Yancoal Australia’s results of operations. To manage uncertainty in our revenue stream and capital expenditures caused by exchange rate fluctuations, we have entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to sell or purchase specified amounts of foreign currencies at stipulated exchange rates. We have also entered into interest rate swap contracts with banks to hedge a portion of our variable interest borrowings. As of December 31, 2009, the fair value asset of our foreign exchange contracts was RMB37.8 million, compared with the fair value liability of our forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts of approximately RMB28.3 million. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” for details on our hedging activities. We cannot assure that our hedging arrangements will remain effective or that our results of operations will be not negatively affected by fluctuations in exchange rates or interest rates. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately RMB22,509.8 million in bank borrowings, of which RMB1,598.1 million is due within a year, RMB20,845.7 million is due after one year but within five years and RMB66.0 million is due more than five years. Substantially all of our increase in our bank borrowings was attributable to our acquisition of Felix. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our operations, including: • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of our debt servicing obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, our industry and the general economy; and • potentially limiting our ability to obtain or increasing the cost of any additional financing. Our borrowings attributable to the Felix acquisition amounting to US$3,040.0 million is guaranteed by us and secured by a counter guarantee from Yankuang Group. Failure by us to satisfy our repayment obligations could result in an event of a default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents The operations of our Controlling Shareholder have a significant impact on us. As of December 31, 2009, our Controlling Shareholder, Yankuang Group, owned 52.86% of our outstanding shares and exerts significant influence over us. We may continue to enter into a number of connected transactions with Yankuang Group. Pursuant to the regulations of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the Shanghai Stock Exchange on continuing connected transactions, we complete the necessary review and approval procedures before entering into continuing connected transactions. We have entered into five continuing connected transaction agreements with Yakuang Group, namely the Provision of Materials Agreement, Provision of Labor and Services Supply Agreement, Provision of Insurance Fund Administrative Services Agreement, Provision of Coal Products and the Materials Agreement and Provision of Electricity and Heat Energy Supply Agreement, each of which has a term from 2009 to 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our shareholders approved the amendment and renewal of the five foregoing continuing connected agreements. Any material financial or operational developments experienced by Yankuang Group that lead to the disruption of its operations or impairs its ability to perform its obligations under the agreements could materially affect our operations and future prospects. Our operations are affected by a number of risks relating to the PRC. As a significant majority of our assets and operations are located in China, we are subject to a number of risks relating to conducting business in China, including, but not limited to, the following: • The central and local governments of the PRC have historically supported the development of the PRC coal industry and the continued operation of selected coal producers. A change in current policies that are favorable to us may adversely affect our ability to expand our business operations or increase our profitability. • Under current PRC regulatory requirements, the capital expenditure we allocate to the development of new coal mine projects must be approved by the PRC government. Failure to obtain timely approvals for our projects may adversely affect our business plans and operating results. • China is still in the process of developing a comprehensive legal system. The enforcement of certain laws in China may still be subject to uncertainty. In addition, the implementation of government policies, from time to time, may also affect the interpretation of existing laws and regulations. • The PRC government’s ongoing reform of the PRC economic system may increase the uncertainties in our business as a number of reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to refinement and adjustments. We may be directly affected by these reforms or indirectly affected by changes in political, economic and social factors that result from these reform measures. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in economic and social conditions in China and changes in the PRC government policies related, but not limited, to inflation control, economic stimulus policies, tax policies and rates, currency conversion restrictions and tariffs and other import restrictions. Our coal operations are extensively regulated by the PRC and Australian government and government regulations may limit our activities and adversely affect our business operations. Our coal operations in China are subject to extensive regulation by the PRC government. National governmental authorities, such as the NDRC, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Land and Resources, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety and the State Bureau of Taxation, as well as corresponding provincial and local authorities and agencies exercise extensive control over the mining and transportation (including rail and sea transport) of coal within China. Our operations in Australia are subject to similar laws and regulations of general application governing mining and processing, land tenure and use, environmental requirements, including site specific environmental licenses, permits and statutory authorizations, workplace health and safety, trade and export, competition, access to infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation. These regulations may be implemented by various federal and state government departments and authorities including the Department of Resources, Energy and Tourism, the Department of Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts, and the National Native Title Tribunal. Regulatory oversight from these authorities and agencies may affect the following, among others, aspects of our operations: • the use and grant of mining rights; • rehabilitation of mining sites and surrounding areas; • mining recovery rates; • pricing of our transportation services for coal in China; 12 Table of Contents • taxes, levies and fees on our business; • application of capital investments; • export quotas and procedures; • pension fund contributions; • preferential tax treatment; and • environmental and safety standards. As a result of the foregoing regulation, our ability to execute our business strategies or to carry out or expand our business operations may be restricted. We may experience substantial delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, permits and licenses for our business operations. Our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in PRC or Australian regulations and policies that affect the coal industry. The adoption of new legislation or regulations, or the new interpretation of existing legislation or regulations, may materially and adversely affect our operations, our cost structure or product demand. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may cause us to substantially change our existing operations or incur significant compliance costs. For example, the Australia federal government announced proposals to implement a 40% resource tax on profits generated from non-renewable resources for mining companies, which is currently scheduled to come into effect on July 1, 2012. The profitability of our operations in Australia will be substantially eroded if this tax is approved and goes into effect. We may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Felix. The success of our recent acquisition of Felix will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, namely the increase in coal reserves, production capacity and economies of scale anticipated by us at the time of acquisition, and within the planned costs and timeframe to realize these benefits. Expanding our business through acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Felix, involves various inherent risks, such as: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the potential weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, an acquisition target; • increasing our cost of compliance, and exposure of non-compliance, with the laws and regulations of Australia regarding mining rights, land reclamation, export quotas and environmental protection and work safety; • subsequent developments in the Australian regulatory environment, which may affect our operations and the timing and desirability of our projects; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions or rationale underlying the acquisition. In addition, we have made a number of undertakings to the Australian government in connection with the acquisition, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — History and Development of our Company — Acquisition of Felix.” If we are not able to execute our plans with respect to Felix acquisition or if there are unfavorable changes in the assumptions underlying our acquisition, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. 