ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our shareholders. We refer to the shares of beneficial interest in WRIT as our “common shares,” and the investors who own shares as our “shareholders.” This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements beginning on page 53. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing or have other adverse effects on us or the market price of our common shares. The United States and global equity and credit markets have experienced in the recent past significant price volatility and liquidity disruptions which caused the market prices of stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances significantly negatively impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive or unavailable. Any disruption in the equity and credit markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms or at all. If such disruption were to occur, in the event of a debt financing, our cost of borrowing in the future would likely be significantly higher than historical levels. As well, in the case of a common equity financing, the disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common shares, potentially requiring us to issue more shares than we would otherwise have issued with a higher market value for our common shares. Disruption in the financial markets also could negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions, undertake new development projects and refinance our debt. In addition, it could also make it more difficult for us to sell properties and could adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers experience increased costs of financing and difficulties in obtaining financing. Disruptions in the financial markets also could adversely affect many of our tenants and their businesses, including their ability to pay rents when due and renew their leases at rates at least as favorable as their current rates. As well, our ability to attract prospective new tenants in the future could be adversely affected by disruption in the financial markets. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets are subject to the risk that if our office, medical office, retail, multifamily and industrial properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the cash flow generated by our commercial and multifamily properties: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • the economic health of our tenants and the ability to collect rents; • consumer confidence, unemployment rates, and consumer tastes and preferences; • competition from similar asset type properties; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for office, medical office, retail, multifamily and industrial properties; • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; 7 Table of Contents • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-let space; • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • inflation; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war; and • decreases in the underlying value of our real estate. We are dependent upon the economic climate of the Washington metropolitan region. All of our properties are located in the Washington metropolitan region, which may expose us to a greater amount of market dependent risk than if we were geographically diverse. General economic conditions and local real estate conditions in our geographic region may be dependent upon one or more industries, thus a downturn in one of the industries may have a particularly strong effect. In the event of negative economic changes in our region, we may experience a negative impact to our profitability and may be limited in our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may be adversely affected by any significant reductions in federal government spending. As a REIT operating exclusively in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, a significant portion of our properties is occupied by United States Government tenants or tenants that are directly or indirectly serving the United States Government as federal contractors or otherwise. A significant reduction in federal government spending could affect the ability of these tenants to fulfill lease obligations or decrease the likelihood that they will renew their leases with us. Further, economic conditions in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area are significantly dependent upon the level of federal government spending in the region. In the event of a significant reduction in federal government spending, there could be negative economic changes in our region which could adversely impact the ability of our tenants to perform their financial obligations under our leases or the likelihood of their lease renewal. As a result, if such a reduction in federal government spending were to occur, we could experience an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We intend to continue to acquire properties which would continue to increase our size and could alter our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and results may be exposed to the following risks: • we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms; • the acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investments; • the actual returns realized on acquired properties may not exceed our average cost of capital; • we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors, including publicly traded real estate investment trusts, institutional investment funds and private investors; • even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations which may have findings that are unacceptable; • even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, we may be unable to complete that acquisition after making a non-refundable deposit and incurring certain other acquisition-related costs; • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; • competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; and • our estimates of capital expenditures required for an acquired property, including the costs of repositioning or redeveloping, may be inaccurate. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without recourse, or with limited recourse with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if liability were asserted against us based upon the acquisition of a property, we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. Real estate investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our properties on a timely basis when we determine it is appropriate to do so. Real estate investments can be difficult to sell and convert to cash quickly, especially if market conditions are not favorable, and we may find that to be the case under the current economic conditions due to limited credit availability for potential buyers. Such illiquidity could limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio of properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Moreover, under certain circumstances, the Internal Revenue Code imposes penalties on a REIT that sells property held for less than two years and or sells more than a specified number of properties in a given year. In addition, for properties that we acquire by issuing units in an operating partnership, we may be restricted by agreements with the sellers of the properties for a certain period of time from entering into transactions (such as the sale or refinancing of the acquired property) that will result in a taxable gain to the sellers without the sellers’ consent. Due to these factors, we may be unable to sell a property at an advantageous time. We face potential difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space. As of December 31, 2010, leases on our commercial properties will expire from 2011 through 2015 as follows: % of leased square footage 2011 12% 2012 11% 2013 12% 2014 15% 2015 13% Total 63% 8 Table of Contents We derive substantially all of our income from rent received from tenants. If our tenants decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-let the space. If tenants decide to renew their leases, the terms of renewals, including the cost of required improvements or concessions, may be less favorable than current lease terms. Multifamily properties are leased under operating leases with terms of generally one year or less. For the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008, the multifamily tenant retention rate was 61%, 54% and 67%, respectively. Similar to our commercial properties, if our multifamily tenants decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-let the space, or the terms of the renewal may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result of the foregoing, our cash flow could decrease and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. We face potential adverse effects from major tenants' bankruptcies or insolvencies. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may adversely affect the income produced by a property. We cannot evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. On the other hand, a court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease. In such case, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. As a result, our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. This shortfall could adversely affect our cash flow and results from operations. If a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely rental payments. We face risks associated with property development. Developing properties present a number of risks for us, including risks that: • if we are unable to obtain all necessary zoning and other required governmental permits and authorizations or cease development of the project for any other reason, the development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources, resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; • the development and construction costs of the project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and increased cost of materials, labor, leasing or other expenditures, which could make the completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; • construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all, which may cause the cost of the project to increase and lower the expected return; • the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions and material shortages, which would result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses; and • occupancy rates and rents at the newly completed property may not meet the expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. Properties developed or acquired for development may generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of management’s time and attention. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. We may suffer economic harm as a result of the actions of our partners in real estate joint ventures and other investments. We may invest in joint ventures or other entities in which we are not the exclusive investor or principal decision maker. Investments in such entities may involve risks not present when a third party is not involved, including the possibility that the other parties to these investments might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Our partners in these entities may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also lead to impasses, for example, as to whether to sell a property, because neither we nor the other parties to these investments may have full control over the entity. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of the other parties to these investments. Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our properties face significant competition. We face significant competition from developers, owners and operators of office, medical office, retail, multifamily, industrial and other commercial real estate. Substantially all of our properties face competition from similar properties in the same market. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to make space available at lower rents than the space in our properties. We face risks associated with the use of debt, including refinancing risk. We rely on borrowings under our credit facilities and offerings of debt securities to finance acquisitions and development activities and for general corporate purposes. The commercial real estate debt markets have in the recent past experienced significant volatility due to a number of factors, including the tightening of underwriting standards by lenders and credit rating agencies and the reported significant inventory of unsold mortgage backed securities in the 9 Table of Contents market. The volatility resulted in investors decreasing the availability of debt financing as well as increasing the cost of debt financing. We believe that circumstances could again arise in which we may not be able to obtain debt financing in the future on favorable terms, or at all. If we were unable to borrow under our credit facilities or to refinance existing debt financing, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt, including the risk that our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. We anticipate that only a small portion of the principal of our debt will be repaid prior to maturity. Therefore, we are likely to need to refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or affect the market price of our common shares or debt securities. On February 18, 2011, our total consolidated debt was approximately $1.2 billion. Consolidated debt to consolidated market capitalization ratio, which measures total consolidated debt as a percentage of the aggregate of total consolidated debt plus the market value of outstanding equity securities, is often used by analysts to gauge leverage for equity REITs such as us. Our market value is calculated using the price per share of our common shares. Using the closing share price of $30.90 per share of our common shares on February 18, 2011, multiplied by the number of our common shares, our consolidated debt to total consolidated market capitalization ratio was approximately 38% as of February 18, 2011. Our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our senior unsecured debt is currently rated investment grade by the two major rating agencies. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this rating, and in the event our senior debt is downgraded from its current rating, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs and/or difficulty in obtaining additional financing. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. There is a risk that changes in our debt to market capitalization ratio, which is in part a function of our share price, or our ratio of indebtedness to other measures of asset value used by financial analysts, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our equity or debt securities. Rising interest rates would increase our interest costs. We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, increase our risks that other parties to the agreements may not perform or that the agreements may be unenforceable. Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. Our credit facilities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We must maintain a minimum tangible net worth and certain ratios, including a maximum of total liabilities to total gross asset value, a maximum of secured indebtedness to gross asset value, a minimum of annual EBITDA to fixed charges, a minimum of unencumbered asset value to unsecured indebtedness, a minimum of net operating income from unencumbered properties to unsecured interest expense and a maximum of permitted investments to gross asset value. Our ability to borrow under our credit facilities is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. The recent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under our unsecured credit facilities or other debt instruments could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. In particular, we could suffer a default under one of our secured debt instruments that could exceed a cross default threshold under our unsecured credit facilities, causing an event of default under the unsecured credit facilities. Alternatively, even if a secured debt instrument is below the cross default threshold for non-recourse secured debt under our unsecured credit facilities, a default under such secured debt instrument may still cause a cross default under our unsecured credit facilities because such secured debt instrument may not qualify as “non-recourse” under the definition in our unsecured credit facilities. Another possible cross default could occur between our unsecured credit facilities, on the one hand, and our senior unsecured notes, on the other hand. Any of the foregoing default or cross 10 Table of Contents default events could cause our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and/or prohibit future borrowings, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments. We have significant cash balances from time to time that we invest in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income. From time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly): • direct obligations issued by the U.S. Treasury; • obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government or its agencies; • taxable municipal securities; • obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts; • commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks; • repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset-backed obligations; • both registered and unregistered money market funds; and • other highly rated short-term securities. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal. Under certain circumstances we may be required to redeem all or part of our investment, and our right to redeem some or all of our investment may be delayed or suspended. In addition, there is no guarantee that our investments in these securities or funds will be redeemable at par value. A decline in the value of our investment or a delay or suspension of our right to redeem may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if additional equity securities are issued, including to finance future developments and acquisitions, instead of incurring additional debt. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other laws and regulations could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including commercial and multifamily properties, be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If, pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We may also incur significant costs complying with other regulations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fair housing, rent control and fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may incur fines or private damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely affect our results of operations. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We carry insurance coverage on our properties of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. The property insurance that we maintain for our properties has historically been on an “all risk” basis, which is in full force 11 Table of Contents and effect until renewal in August 2011. There are other types of losses, such as from wars or catastrophic events, for which we cannot obtain insurance at all or at a reasonable cost. We have an insurance policy which has no terrorism exclusion, except for non-certified nuclear, chemical and biological acts of terrorism. Our financial condition and results of operations are subject to the risks associated with acts of terrorism and the potential for uninsured losses as the result of any such acts. Effective November 26, 2002, under this existing coverage, any losses caused by certified acts of terrorism would be partially reimbursed by the United States under a formula established by federal law. Under this formula the United States pays 85% of covered terrorism losses exceeding the statutorily established deductible paid by the insurance provider, and insurers pay 10% until aggregate insured losses from all insurers reach $100 billion in a calendar year. If the aggregate amount of insured losses under this program exceeds $100 billion during the applicable period for all insured and insurers combined, then each insurance provider will not be liable for payment of any amount which exceeds the aggregate amount of $100 billion. On December 26, 2007, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 was signed into law and extends the program through December 31, 2014. We continue to monitor the state of the insurance market in general, and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism in particular, but we cannot anticipate what amount of coverage will be available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years. In the event of an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated from the affected property and the capital we have invested in the affected property. Depending on the specific circumstances of the affected property it is possible that we could be liable for any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. We have to renew our policies in most cases on an annual basis and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases. Any material increase in insurance rates or decrease in available coverage in the future could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Actual or threatened terrorist attacks may adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties. All of our properties are located in or near Washington D.C., a metropolitan area that has been and may in the future be the target of actual or threatened terrorism attacks. As a result, some tenants in our market may choose to relocate their businesses to other markets. This could result in an overall decrease in the demand for commercial space in this market generally, which could increase vacancies in our properties or necessitate that we lease our properties on less favorable terms, or both. In addition, future terrorist attacks in or near Washington D.C. could directly or indirectly damage our properties, both physically and financially, or cause losses that materially exceed our insurance coverage. As a result of the foregoing, our ability to generate revenues and the value of our properties could decline materially. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration and other state and local governmental authorities are increasingly involved in indoor air quality standards, especially with respect to asbestos, mold, medical waste and lead-based paint. The clean up of any environmental contamination, including asbestos and mold, can be costly. If environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations because: • as owner or operator we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination; • the law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination; • even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and • governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. 12 Table of Contents These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos: • properly manage and maintain the asbestos; • notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos; and • undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. It is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct Phase I environmental site assessments and asbestos surveys with respect to our acquisition of properties. These assessments generally include a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the properties and the surrounding areas and a review of relevant state, federal and historical documents. However, they do not always involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. Where appropriate, on a property-by-property basis, our general practice is to have these consultants conduct additional testing. However, even though these additional assessments may be conducted, there is still the risk that: • the environmental assessments and updates did not identify all potential environmental liabilities; • a prior owner created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the assessments; • new environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were conducted; and • future uses or conditions or changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in environmental liability to us. Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we are qualified as such, or that we will remain qualified as such in the future. This is because qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code as to which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT we could face serious tax consequences that could substantially reduce our funds available for payment of dividends for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and could be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we are disqualified; and • all dividends would be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits potentially eligible as “qualified dividends” subject to the 15% income tax rate. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents The market value of our securities can be adversely affected by many factors. As with any public company, a number of factors may adversely influence the public market price of our common shares. These factors include: • level of institutional interest in us; • perceived attractiveness of investment in us, in comparison to other REITs; • attractiveness of securities of REITs in comparison to other asset classes taking into account, among other things, that a substantial portion of REITs’ dividends are taxed as ordinary income; • our financial condition and performance; • the market’s perception of our growth potential and potential future cash dividends; • government action or regulation, including changes in tax law; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to expect a higher annual yield from our distributions in relation to the price of our shares; • changes in federal tax laws; • changes in our credit ratings; • relatively low trading volume of shares of REITs in general, which tends to exacerbate a market trend with respect to our shares; and • any negative change in the level of our dividend or the partial payment thereof in common shares. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at historical rates or to increase our common share dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: • our future financial condition and results of operations; • the performance of lease terms by tenants; • the terms of our loan covenants; and • our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or increase the dividend rate on our common shares in the future, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may limit a change in control. There are several provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, that may limit the ability of a third party to undertake a change in control, including: • a provision where a corporation is not permitted to engage in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” defined as any holder or affiliate of any holder of 10% or more of the corporation’s stock, for a period of five years after that holder becomes an “interested stockholder;” and • a provision where the voting rights of “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition,” as defined in the MGCL, may be restricted, such that the “control shares” have no voting rights, except to the extent approved by a vote of holders of two-thirds of the common shares entitled to vote on the matter. These provisions may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control that may involve a premium price for holders of our shares or otherwise be in their best interests. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 