Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks we have highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Risks Related to Our Business Our expansion strategy involves risks and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such strategy. We may not successfully execute our expansion strategy of building new Granite City restaurants, creating private dining rooms and expanding bar areas of existing Granite City restaurants and improving our technology. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue to generate cash flow from operations to meet our obligations, and will need substantial additional capital to grow our business. Failure to develop successful strategies and implement a business plan that achieves our objectives or to access capital required to fund our growth, would have an adverse impact on our company and the market price of our shares. We have significant capital needs and cannot give assurance that financing will be available to us to pursue expansion. We require significant capital for our operations and for expansion of our Granite City concept. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for expansion on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of our equity securities, such issuance may be at prices below the market prices of our common stock, and our shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Further, additional debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, more restrictive covenants and financial ratios that could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. In addition, we must redeem the $2 million of Redeemable Preferred Stock we sold in December 2013 (1) at September 1, 2018, provided no default or event of default under the Credit Agreement exists or would result therefrom, (2) if we exceed a senior loan maximum of $37 million, or (3) if refinancing extends the maturity date of our senior loans beyond May 31, 2018. Furthermore, the failure to obtain financing for growth could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we may be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. Increases in interest rates will also affect our lease rates and can be expected to adversely impact our operating results. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to expand in a timely and profitable manner. To continue to grow, we must open new Granite City restaurants on a profitable basis. We also may expand Cadillac Ranch where appropriate, if the location fits the parameters of a Cadillac Ranch concept. The capital resources required to develop each new Granite City restaurant are significant. Expansion may be delayed or curtailed: · if we are unable to obtain acceptable equipment financing of restaurants; · if future cash flows from operations fail to meet our expectations; · if costs and capital expenditures for restaurant development exceed anticipated amounts; 13 Table of Contents · if we incur unanticipated expenditures related to our operations; or · if we are required to reduce prices to respond to competitive pressures. We estimate that our cost of opening a new Granite City restaurant ranges from $2.0 million to $3.0 million, which includes furniture, fixtures and equipment and pre-opening costs. This assumes the land is leased from a third party, and building costs are partially offset by a landlord tenant improvement allowance ranging from $1.0 million to $2.5 million. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant, conditions in the local real estate and employment markets, and sale leaseback terms or other leasing arrangements. Even with adequate financing, we may experience delays in restaurant openings which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to expand depends upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · identification and availability of suitable restaurant sites; · competition for restaurant sites; · securing required governmental approvals, licenses and permits; · the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; and · recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly general managers and kitchen managers. In addition, we may enter geographic markets in which we have no prior operating experience. These new markets may have demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns different than those present in our existing markets, which may cause any new restaurants to be less successful than our existing restaurants. We may seek to acquire companies or interests in companies that complement our business. Our inability to complete acquisitions may render us less competitive. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional acquisitions, we also cannot be sure that any benefits anticipated from the acquisitions will actually be realized. Likewise, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary financing for acquisitions. Such financing could be restricted by the terms of the Credit Agreement or it could be more expensive than our current debt. The amount of such debt financing for acquisitions could be significant and the terms of such debt instruments could be more restrictive than our current financial covenants. We may face challenges integrating the operations of future acquisitions that could adversely affect our financial performance. The process of integrating any acquired operations into our existing business may result in operating, contract and supply chain difficulties, such as the failure to retain customers or management personnel and problems coordinating technology and supply chain arrangements. Also, in connection with any acquisition, we could fail to discover liabilities of the acquired company for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator in spite of any investigation we make prior to the acquisition. Such difficulties may divert significant financial, operational and managerial resources from our existing operations, and make it more difficult to achieve our operating and strategic objectives. The diversion of management attention, particularly in a difficult operating environment, may affect our revenue. Similarly, our business depends on effective information technology systems and implementation delays or poor execution of the integration of different information technology systems could disrupt our operations and increase costs. Possible future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense or contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial 14 Table of Contents condition, operating results and/or cash flow. If the goodwill resulting from a business combination were deemed to be impaired, we would need to take a charge to earnings to write down the goodwill to its fair value. In addition, acquisitions may result in significant amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Unanticipated costs or delays in the development or construction of future restaurants could prevent our timely and cost-effective opening of future restaurants. We rely upon contractors for the construction of our Granite City restaurants. After construction, we invest heavily in equipment for completion of our restaurants. Many factors could adversely affect the costs and time associated with the development of future restaurants, including: · availability of labor; · shortages of construction materials and skilled labor; · management of construction and development costs of restaurants; · adverse weather; · unforeseen construction problems; · environmental problems; · zoning problems; · federal, state and local government regulations, including licensing requirements; · modifications in design; and · other increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns which may prevent us from developing future restaurants within anticipated budgets and expected development schedules. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any decision to either reduce or accelerate the pace of openings may positively or adversely affect our comparative financial performance. Our opening costs continue to be significant and the amount incurred in any one year or quarter is dependent on the number of restaurants expected to be opened during that time period. As such, our decision to either decrease or increase the rate of openings may have a significant impact on our financial performance for the period of time being measured. Therefore, if we decide to reduce our openings, our comparable opening costs will be lower and the effect on our comparative financial performance will be favorable for such period. Conversely, if the rate at which we develop and open new restaurants is increased to higher levels in the future, the resulting increase in opening costs will have an unfavorable short-term impact on our comparative financial performance. We may not be able to manage expansion. We face many additional business risks in connection with expansion, including the risk that our existing management, information systems and financial controls will be inadequate. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that expansion imposes on management and these systems and controls. Expansion also places increased demands on human resources, purchasing and restaurant opening teams. If we fail to continue to improve management, information systems and financial controls, or if we encounter unexpected difficulties, we may be unable to grow and/or maintain current levels of operating performance in our existing restaurants. 15 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and no assurance of future profitability. We have incurred losses in each fiscal year since inception. We had net losses of approximately $3.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and approximately $4.1 million for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, we had a retained deficit of approximately $83.5 million. We cannot assure you that we will materially increase our revenue, and even if we substantially increase our revenue, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flow. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future because our operating results can be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, economic conditions, and the level of competition in our markets. Disruptions in the national economy and the financial markets have adversely impacted our business and may further impact our business. In recent years, the full-service dining sector of the restaurant industry has been adversely affected by economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. As a result, any decrease in cash flow generated from our business could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit and equity markets. If the economy does not continue to recover from the economic downturn that began to affect the restaurant industry in 2008, we cannot assure you that we can reduce costs to a level necessary to offset potentially lower revenue. Depending upon the future economic conditions, we may need to raise additional capital and/or close restaurants to continue operating. Consumer confidence has not recovered from historic lows impacting the public’s ability and/or desire to spend money eating out. While sales and guest traffic gains have been made by the restaurant industry and our restaurants, much of the economic improvement in the restaurant industry has come from cost savings initiatives. If this current weak economic recovery continues for a prolonged period of time and/or deepens in magnitude returning to the negative trends of prior years, our business, results of operations and ability to comply with the covenants under our credit facility could be materially affected. Deterioration in guest traffic and/or a reduction in the average amount guests spend in our restaurants will negatively impact our revenue. This could result in reductions in staff levels, asset impairment charges and potential restaurant closures. Changes in discretionary consumer spending could negatively impact our results. Our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. In a weak economy, our customers have reduced and may continue to reduce their level of discretionary spending which impacts the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out and the amount they spend when they do dine out, thereby reducing our revenue. Adverse economic conditions could continue to reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Discretionary consumer spending, which is critical to our success, is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. The economic downturn that began to affect the restaurant industry in 2008 has reduced consumer confidence and affected consumers’ ability or desire to spend disposable income. A continued deterioration in the economy or other economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as unemployment levels, reduced home values, investment losses, personal bankruptcies, inflation, business conditions, fuel and other energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, consumer confidence, interest rates, tax rates and changes in tax laws, may adversely affect our business by reducing overall consumer spending or by causing customers to reduce the frequency with which they dine out or to shift their spending to our competitors or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower revenue. There is also a risk that if negative economic conditions 16 Table of Contents persist for a long period of time or worsen, consumers may make long-lasting changes to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis. In May 2011, we replaced a majority of the members of our board and made changes in our senior management, including our chief executive officer. Our failure to successfully capitalize on these management changes or the failure of new senior management to successfully manage our operations may adversely affect our business. Upon the closing of our Series A Preferred issuance to Concept Development Partners LLC, or CDP, which we refer to as the CDP transaction, four of our incumbent directors resigned, the size of our board was increased from seven to eight persons, and the following persons were elected to our board: Fouad Z. Bashour, Robert J. Doran, Louis M. Mucci, Michael S. Rawlings and Michael H. Staenberg. Mr. Bashour was also appointed to serve as our Chairman of the Board and Mr. Doran was also elected to serve as our Chief Executive Officer. Our future success depends on the ability of our board and our senior management team to successfully implement our strategies and manage our operations. Our principal shareholder, CDP, has substantial control over us, which could reduce your ability to receive a premium for your shares through a change in control. As of March 11, 2014, CDP beneficially owned approximately 78.8 percent of our common stock. In addition, under our stock purchase agreement with CDP dated February 8, 2011, CDP nominated five persons to serve on our board of directors. Finally, CDP and DHW, formerly our majority shareholder and the direct or indirect landlord of four of our locations, have entered into a shareholder and voting agreement, pursuant to which: · DHW agrees to vote its shares for CDP’s five nominees to our board of directors; · CDP agrees to vote its shares for DHW’s two nominees to our board of directors; · at any meeting of our shareholders, DHW agrees to vote its shares in the same manner as CDP on any other matter presented to the shareholders; and · DHW granted an irrevocable proxy to CDP to vote all of the shares of our common stock which are owned by DHW. As a result of the foregoing, CDP has a significant influence on the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval independent of how our other shareholders may vote, including: · the election of our directors; · any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; · the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; and · the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other shareholders. A decline in visitors to retail centers, shopping malls, or entertainment centers where our restaurants are located could negatively affect our restaurant sales and may require us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, lifestyle centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. Consumers may dine out less frequently depending on economic conditions. As guest traffic decreases, lower sales result in decreased leverage that leads to declines in operating margins. If visitor rates to these centers decline due to economic or political conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, further changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, higher frequency of online shopping, further changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing gasoline prices, or otherwise, our revenue could decline and adversely affect our results of 17 Table of Contents operations, including the possible need to record an impairment charge for restaurants that are performing below expectations. A deterioration in general economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or on businesses neighboring our locations, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Any deterioration in general economic conditions could result in our landlords being unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements which could result in their failure to satisfy obligations to us under our leases, including failures to fund or reimburse agreed-upon tenant improvement allowances. Any such failure could adversely impact our operations. Certain of our restaurants are located in retail developments with nationally recognized co-tenants, which help increase overall guest traffic into those retail developments. Some of our co-tenants may cease operations in the future or defer openings or fail to open in a retail development after committing to do so. These failures may lead to reduced guest traffic and a general deterioration in the surrounding retail centers in which our restaurants are located and may contribute to lower guest traffic at our restaurants. If these retail developments experience high vacancy rates, we could experience decreases in guest traffic. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail centers, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such centers where we operate restaurants. Our future development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the financial condition of developers and potential landlords. Landlords may try to delay or cancel development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and declines in consumer spending, which could reduce the number of appropriate locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. Furthermore, the failure of landlords to obtain licenses or permits for development projects on a timely basis, which is beyond our control, may negatively impact our ability to implement our development plan. Our geographic concentration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate a significant number of our restaurants in the Midwestern United States and may be particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this geographic market, including its labor market, which could adversely impact our operating results. Our planned expansion to Northeastern and Southeastern states may not reduce our geographic concentration or lessen our exposure to adverse geographic trends. Healthcare reform legislation could have an impact on our business. During 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. Certain of the provisions that have increased our healthcare costs include the removal of annual plan limits and the mandate that health plans provide 100% coverage on expanded preventative care. Additionally, from time to time, various states and municipalities consider other proposals regarding health insurance regulation. We continue to evaluate the potential impacts of the health care reform law on our business, and we intend to accommodate various parts of the law as they take effect. We cannot assure you that a combination of cost management and price increases can accommodate all of the incremental costs associated with our compliance. The imposition of any requirement that we provide health insurance benefits to employees that are more extensive than the health insurance benefits we currently provide could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as the restaurant industry in general. Our suppliers may also be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us. Changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an impact on our business and operating costs. Less mature restaurants may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue. Our less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and as a percentage of revenue when compared to mature restaurants due to the inefficiencies typically associated with less mature restaurants. Some or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our mature restaurants. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. Our leases generally are long term in nature. Most of our leases have 6 to 15 years remaining on their terms with options to renew in five-year increments (at increased rates). All our leases require fixed annual rent, although some require payment of additional contingent rent if restaurant sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are “triple net” leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Future sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the second and third quarters of each year. As a result, it is probable that our quarterly operating results and comparable restaurant sales will continue to fluctuate as a result of seasonality. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales of any particular future period may decrease. Additionally, because Cadillac Ranch restaurants are more entertainment-based, certain restaurants will see a fluctuation in sales depending upon events in or around its location. You should not rely on past increases in our average restaurant revenues or our comparable restaurant sales as an indication of future operating results because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors historically have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our average restaurant revenue and/or comparable restaurant sales, including, among other factors: · our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; · our ability to expand; · initial sales performance by our restaurants; · the timing of restaurant openings and related expenses; · levels of competition in one or more of our markets; and · general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Decreases in our same store sales could cause the price of our common stock to decrease. Our profitability depends in large measure on food, beverage and supply costs which are not within our control. We must anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. Historically, commodity prices have fluctuated, often increasing, due to seasonal or economic issues and we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. We are also subject to the general risks of inflation. Our restaurants’ operating margins are further affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the restaurants depend for their energy supply. Because we transport “wort” created at our centralized production facility in Ellsworth, Iowa to our restaurant locations we also are affected by increases in the cost of fuel. The failure to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages, increased food and beverage costs, and quality control problems. We have entered into contracts through 2017 with certain suppliers of raw materials (primarily hops) for minimum purchases both in terms of quantity and in pricing. However, if the national distributor that provides food and beverages to all our restaurants, or other distributors or suppliers, cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to obtain an alternative supply source. If these alternative suppliers do not meet our specifications, the consistency and quality of our food and beverage offerings, and thus our reputation, guest patronage, revenue and results of operations, could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently increase menu prices to address cost increases could result in a decline in margins. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for food commodities (such as pork, beef, fish, poultry and dairy products), minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, energy, fuel, and other costs. Although we do not believe we have experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants or affect their purchasing decisions. If we are unsuccessful at raising prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. The need for additional advertising may arise, which could increase our operating expenses. We have generally relied on our high profile locations, operational excellence, “word-of-mouth,” and limited paid advertising to attract and retain restaurant guests. During 2013, our radio and television advertising costs accounted for less than one percent of our net sales. Should we conclude that additional paid advertising is necessary to attract and retain guests, our operating expenses could increase and our financial results could be adversely affected. Changes in consumer preferences as a result of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health could negatively impact our results. Our operating results may be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, general economic and political conditions and the level of competition in our markets. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of micro-brewed beers and casual, broad menu restaurants. Shifts in consumer preferences away from these beers and this dining style could materially adversely affect any future profitability. Changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits and the level of consumer acceptance of our restaurant concepts could also impact our operating results. In addition, our success depends on our ability to adapt our menu to trends in food consumption. Further, recently imposed health care laws require us to comply with federally mandated menu labeling and menu ingredient rules and regulations. We do not expect to incur any material costs from compliance with the provision of the health care law requiring disclosure of calories and other nutritional information on our menus, but we cannot yet anticipate any changes in guest behavior resulting from the implementation of this portion of the recently imposed health care law, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or results of operations. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could materially affect demand for our menu offerings resulting in lost customers and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Health concerns or negative publicity regarding our restaurants or food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, E. coli, “mad cow” or “foot-and-mouth” disease, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our 20 Table of Contents restaurants. Furthermore, any contamination of the “wort” created at our centralized production facility for our craft beer varieties, or negative publicity surrounding such contamination, would adversely affect us. Health concerns, including adverse publicity concerning food-related illness, although not specifically related to our restaurants, could cause guests to avoid restaurants in general, which would have a negative impact on our sales. A decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants as a result of health concerns or negative publicity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to protect our customers’ credit/debit card data and personal information, we could be exposed to data loss, litigation and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed. In connection with credit/debit card sales, we transmit confidential credit/debit card information securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation. Legal proceedings related to theft of credit/debit card information may be brought by payment card providers, banks, and credit unions that issue cards, cardholders (either individually or as part of a class action lawsuit), and federal and state regulators. Any such proceedings could distract our management from running our business and cause us to incur significant unplanned losses and expenses. We also receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and employees. The use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels. If our security and information systems are compromised or our employees fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our results of operations, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, our ability to accept credit/debit cards as payment in our restaurants and online depends on us maintaining our compliance status with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. These standards, set by a consortium of the major credit card companies, require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our guests’ credit/debit card information as well as other personal information. Privacy and information security laws and regulations change over time, and compliance with those changes may result in cost increases due to necessary system and process changes. We rely on computer systems and information technology to run our business. Any material failure, interruption or security breach of our computer systems or information technology may adversely affect the operation of the business and our results of operations. Computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We outsource certain essential business processes to third-party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some of our essential business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include, but are not limited to, gift card tracking and authorization, on-line ordering, credit/debit card authorization and processing, certain components of our “Mug Club” guest loyalty program, certain insurance claims processing, payroll processing, web site hosting and maintenance, data warehousing and business intelligence services, point-of-sale system maintenance, certain tax filings, telecommunications services, web-based labor scheduling and other key processes. We seek to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, we cannot assure you that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents We may be unable to recruit, motivate and retain qualified employees. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including trained brewing personnel, restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions could be in short supply in one or more of our markets. In addition, our success depends upon the skill and experience of our restaurant-level management teams. Our inability to recruit, motivate and retain such individuals may result in high employee turnover which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of members of our senior management and certain other key employees. Competition for employees with such specialized training and deep backgrounds in the restaurant industry is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. In addition, we cannot assure you that employees will not leave or compete against us. If the services of any member of management become unavailable for any reason, it could adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, the ability of our key personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and atmosphere of our restaurants is a critical factor in our success. Any failure to do so may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. We may be unable to successfully compete with other restaurants in our markets. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. There are many well-established competitors with greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of such competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants with similar concepts in our markets. Any inability to successfully compete with restaurants in our markets could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrees and side dishes from the deli section. We may need to make changes to our established concept in order to compete with new and developing restaurant concepts that become popular within our markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing such changes or that these changes will not increase our expenses. Our success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary information. Failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, trade secrets and patents could adversely affect our business. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Granite City Food & Brewery and Cadillac Ranch All American Bar and Grill names. Although our service marks are federally registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, our trademarks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. We rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Our methods of protecting this intellectual property may not be adequate, however, and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. If future trademark registrations are not approved because third parties own these trademarks, our use of these trademarks would be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with the third party owners, which might not be possible on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts or recipes. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. In May 2007, the United States Patent and Trademark Office granted us a patent for our proprietary beer brewing process. This patent covers the method and apparatus for maintaining a centralized facility for the production of unfermented and unprocessed hopped wort (one of the last steps of the beer brewing production process) which is then transported to our restaurant fermentation tanks where it is finished into beer. We received another patent in June 2010 for an apparatus for distributed production of beer. Our patents may be successfully 22 Table of Contents challenged by others or invalidated. In addition, any patents that may be granted to us may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market. We may not be able to obtain and maintain necessary federal, state and local permits, which could adversely affect existing operations or delay or prevent the opening of future restaurants. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required food service, liquor and brewing licenses for each of our restaurants. If we fail to hold all necessary licenses, we may be forced to close affected restaurants or limit the food and beverage offerings at our affected locations. We must comply with federal licensing requirements imposed by the United States Department of Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, as well as licensing requirements of states and municipalities where we operate restaurants, including regulations relating to alcoholic beverage control, the purchase, preparation and sale of food, public health and safety, sanitization, building, zoning and fire codes, and employment and related tax matters. From time to time we have incurred fines or sanctions, including license suspensions, due to infractions of regulations. Failure to comply with federal, state or local regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or force us to cease brewing and selling our beer. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked and suspended for cause at any time. All of these regulations impact not only our current operations but also our ability to open future restaurants. We will be required to comply with applicable state and local regulations in new locations into which we expand. Any difficulties, delays or failures in obtaining licenses, permits or approvals in such new locations could delay or prevent the opening of a restaurant in a particular area or reduce revenue at an existing location, either of which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also are at risk that state regulations concerning brewery restaurants or the interpretation of these regulations may change. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants, including increases in the minimum wage, could increase our operating costs and restrict expansion. We are subject to a variety of federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage and overtime pay requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation insurance rates and citizenship requirements. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could increase our labor costs and reduce our operating margins. Several of our restaurants are located in states where the minimum wage is higher than the federal minimum wage. Under the proposed Federal Minimum Wage Act of 2013 or related legislation, the federal minimum wage may be increased and there likely will be additional minimum wage increases implemented in states in which we operate or seek to operate. A substantial majority of employees working in our restaurants receive compensation equal to the applicable minimum wage, and future increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Additional governmental mandates such as an increase in paid leaves of absence, extensions of health benefits or increased tax reporting and payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, could negatively impact our operating results. We may face liability under dram shop statutes. Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to “dram shop” statutes in some states. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or 23 Table of Contents operational concerns. We could be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or current employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. Limitations in our insurance coverage could adversely affect our operations in certain circumstances. We have comprehensive insurance, including workers’ compensation, employee practices liability, general liability, business interruption, fire and extended coverage and property insurance. However, there are certain types of losses which may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Such hazards may include earthquake, hurricane and flood losses. If such a loss should occur, we would, to the extent that we are not covered for such loss by insurance, suffer a loss of the capital invested in, as well as anticipated profits and/or cash flow from, such damaged or destroyed properties. Punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance; thus, any awards of punitive damages as to which we may be liable could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business or to develop future restaurants. We cannot assure you that any insurance coverage we maintain will be adequate, that we can continue to obtain and maintain such insurance at all, or that the premium costs will not rise to an extent that they adversely affect our business or our ability to economically obtain or maintain such insurance. If our centralized beer production facility were to be damaged or impaired, our craft beer production would be materially adversely affected. We operate a centralized production facility in Ellsworth, Iowa for our craft beer varieties. This facility combines the ingredients for the initial stages of our brewing process. The product or “wort” created at our beer production facility is then transported to the fermentation vessels at each of our Granite City restaurants where the brewing process is completed. If such facility were to be destroyed or otherwise inaccessible to us, we would be unable to produce beer in sufficient quantities to supply our restaurants with our craft beer varieties. In such event, our ability to efficiently recommence craft beer production also would be adversely affected. Risks Related to our Securities We have deregistered our common stock under the Exchange Act, which could negatively affect the liquidity and trading prices of our common stock and will result in less disclosure about the Company. We have deregistered our common stock under the Exchange Act. By deregistering, our obligation to file reports with the SEC (including periodic reports, proxy statements, and tender offer statements) has been suspended and we expect that there will be a substantial decrease in the liquidity in our common stock even though shareholders may still continue to trade our common stock on OTC Pink. In addition, we are no longer required to meet the stringent reporting requirements set forth under the Exchange Act. Fluctuations in our operating results may decrease the price of our securities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including the operating results of our restaurants, changes in food and labor costs, increases or decreases in comparable restaurant sales, general economic conditions, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in consumer preferences, nutritional concerns and discretionary spending patterns, competitive factors, the skill and the experience of our restaurant-level management teams, the maturity of each restaurant, adverse weather conditions in our markets, our ability to expand, and the timing of future restaurant openings and related expenses. Consequently, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors for any given period. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. In the past, companies that have experienced extreme fluctuations in the market price of their stock have been the subject of securities class action litigation. If we were to be subject to such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Our common stock trades on the OTC Market known as OTC Pink which provides less liquidity for our common stock than national securities exchanges. The OTC Pink provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ stock market or any other national securities exchange. The quotation of our common stock on OTC Pink may reduce the price of our common stock. Further, the quotation of our common stock on OTC Pink may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our common stock may be subject to manipulation because of the thinness of the market for our stock. Selling our common stock may be difficult because of the limited quantity of shares that may be bought and sold in the public market. This limited trading may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and media coverage. As a result, there could be a larger spread between the bid and ask prices of our common stock and you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock when or at prices you desire. As a result, investors may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and the ability of our shareholders to sell our securities in the secondary market may be materially limited. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. Anti-takeover provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Minnesota law could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then current market price of our common stock. For example, our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue up to 6,998,000 additional shares of preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of our common stock. In addition, our Amended and Restated Bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for the nomination of candidates to our board of directors that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding “control share acquisitions” and “business combinations.” We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board of directors to issue undesignated preferred stock, our advance notice procedure for nominations, and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 