Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company faces a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with its operations. The most significant of these are described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may adversely affect the Company in the future. If any of the events or developments described below occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. • Reductions in the Amount of Funds Available to Students, including under the Federal Title IV Programs, in Kaplan’s Higher Education Schools Or Changes in the Terms on Which Such Funds Are Made Available During the Company’s 2008 fiscal year, funds provided under the student financial aid programs created under Title IV of the Federal Higher Education Act accounted for approximately $904 million of the net revenues of the schools in Kaplan’s Higher Education Schools. Any legislative, regulatory or other development that has the effect of materially reducing the amount of Title IV financial assistance or other funds available to the students of those schools would have a significant adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. In addition, any development that has the effect of making the terms on which Title IV financial assistance or other funds are available to students of those schools materially less attractive could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Tighter Lending Standards Imposed by Private Lenders Students obtain financing from a number of sources. In addition to funds available under the Federal Title IV programs in the form of federal loans and grants, students often obtain loans from private lenders. In response to a general tightening in the credit markets, lenders have announced that they will apply more stringent lending standards for loans to students. In late 2008, Kaplan Higher Education experienced a significant reduction in the ability of its students to obtain loans from private lenders, which could lead to reduced enrollment in Kaplan schools. Kaplan Higher Education estimates that approximately 5% of its revenue comes from students who obtain loans from private lenders. To counter the loss of loans from private lenders, Kaplan Higher Education commenced an institutional loan program directly lending to its students to fund their education. 26 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY Table of Contents • Failure to Maintain Institutional Accreditation Could Lead to Loss of Ability to Participate in Title IV Programs Each of Kaplan Higher Education’s ground campuses and online university are institutionally accredited by one or another of a number of national and regional accreditors recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Department of Education is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render Kaplan schools and programs ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on its business. • Failure to Maintain State Authorizations Could Cause Loss of Ability to Operate and to Participate in Title IV Programs in Some States Kaplan Higher Education ground campuses and online university are authorized to operate and to grant degrees, certificates or diplomas by the applicable state agency of each state where such authorization is required. Such state authorization is required for each campus located in the state or, in the case of states that require it, for Kaplan University online to offer post-secondary education. In either case, state authorization is required for students at Higher Education campuses or enrolled in online programs to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of such authorization would preclude the campuses or online university from offering post-secondary education and render students ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. Loss of authorization at those state campus locations or, in states that require it for Kaplan University online, could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan Higher Education’s business. • Changes in the Extent to Which Standardized Tests Are Used in the Admissions Process by Colleges or Graduate Schools A substantial portion of Kaplan’s operating income is generated by its Test Prep and Admissions operations. The source of this income is fees charged for courses that prepare students for a broad range of admissions examinations that are required for admission to colleges and graduate schools. Historically, colleges and graduate schools have required standardized tests as part of the admissions process. There has been some movement away from this historical reliance on standardized admissions tests among a small number of colleges that have adopted “test-optional” admissions policies. Any significant reduction in the use of standardized tests in the college or graduate school admissions process could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Changes in the Extent to Which Licensing and Proficiency Examinations Are Used to Qualify Individuals to Pursue Certain Careers A substantial portion of Kaplan Professional’s revenue comes from preparing individuals for licensing or technical proficiency examinations in various fields. Any significant relaxation or elimination of licensing or technical proficiency requirements in those fields served by Kaplan’s Professional Division could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results. • Failure to Successfully Assimilate Acquired Businesses The Company’s Kaplan subsidiary has historically been an active acquirer of businesses that provide educational services. Consistent with this historical trend, during 2008 Kaplan completed a total of nine acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in efficiently integrating the service offerings, accounting and other administrative systems of an acquired business; the challenges of assimilating and retaining key personnel; the consequences of diverting the attention of senior management from existing operations; the possibility that an acquired business does not meet or exceed the financial projections that supported the purchase price; and the possible failure of the due diligence process to identify significant business risks or undisclosed liabilities associated with the acquired business. A failure to effectively manage growth and integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Difficulties of Managing Foreign Operations Kaplan has operations and investments in a growing number of foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, India and China. Operating in foreign countries presents a number of inherent risks, including the difficulties of complying with unfamiliar laws and regulations, effectively managing and staffing foreign operations, successfully navigating local customs and practices, preparing for potential political and economic instability and adapting to currency exchange rate fluctuations. The failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. • Negative Impact of Recent Financial Market Crisis and Economic Downturn, Particularly in the Specific Geographic Markets Served by the Company’s Publishing and Television Broadcasting Businesses A significant portion of the Company’s revenues in its publishing and broadcasting businesses comes from advertising. The demand for advertising is sensitive to the overall level of economic activity, both nationally and locally. The financial 2008 FORM 10-K 27 Table of Contents market crisis and economic downturn has reduced advertising expenditures of many of our advertisers, which has had a negative impact on the operating results of the Company’s newspaper and magazine publishing and television broadcasting businesses. A continued decline in general economic conditions in the United States may have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company’s businesses. • Changing Preferences of Readers Or Viewers Away From Traditional Media Outlets The rates that the Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses can charge for advertising are directly related to the number of readers and viewers of its publications and broadcasts. There is tremendous competition for readers and viewers from other media. The Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses will be adversely affected to the extent that individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media to the exclusion of the Company’s publications and broadcasts. • Changing Perceptions About the Effectiveness of Publishing and Television Broadcasting in Delivering Advertising Historically, newspaper and magazine publishing and television broadcasting have been viewed as cost-effective methods of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions on the part of advertisers. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, the profitability of the Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses will suffer. • Increased Competition Resulting From Technological Innovations in News, Information and Video Programming Distribution Systems The development of direct broadcast satellite systems has significantly increased the competition faced by the Company’s cable television systems. In addition, the continuing growth and technological expansion of Internet-based services has increased competitive pressure on the Company’s media businesses. The development and deployment of new technologies has the potential to negatively and dramatically affect the Company’s businesses in ways that cannot now be reliably predicted. • Changes in the Nature and Extent of Government Regulations, Particularly in the Case of Television Broadcasting, Cable Television, and VoIP Services The Company’s television broadcasting and cable television businesses operate in highly regulated environments. The Company’s VoIP services business also is subject to a growing degree of regulation. Complying with applicable regulations has significantly increased, and may continue to increase, the costs and reduced the revenues of these businesses. Changes in regulations have the potential to further negatively impact those businesses, not only by increasing compliance costs and (through restrictions on certain types of advertising, limitations on pricing flexibility or other means) reducing revenues, but also by possibly creating more favorable regulatory environments for the providers of competing services. More generally, all of the Company’s businesses could have their profitability or their competitive positions adversely affected by significant changes in applicable regulations. • Potential Liability for Patent Infringement in the Cable Industry Providers of services similar to those offered by the Company’s Cable ONE subsidiary have been the target of patent infringement claims from time to time relating to such matters as cable system architecture, electronic program guides, cable modem technology and VoIP services. Although we cannot predict the impact at this juncture, if any such claims are successful, the outcome would likely affect Cable ONE, as well as all other cable operators in the United States. • Changes in the Cost Or Availability of Raw Materials, Particularly Newsprint The Company’s newspaper publishing businesses collectively spend significant amounts each year on newsprint. Material increases in the cost of newsprint or significant disruptions in the supply of newsprint could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 