Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks we have highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the CDP transaction. Assuming shareholder approval and closing of the CDP transaction and the availability of a $10.0 million credit facility, our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction. Even if the transaction is successfully closed, we may not successfully execute our growth strategy of building new restaurants, creating private dining rooms and expanding bar areas of existing restaurants and improving our technology. Furthermore, even with the anticipated lease restructuring and permanent rent reductions, we may not be able to continue to generate cash flow from operations. If we are not able to develop successful strategies and implement a business plan that achieves these objectives and benefits from our relationship with CDP and its board and management designees, the anticipated benefits of the CDP transaction may not be realized, which would have an adverse impact on our company and the market price of our shares. We have a history of losses and no assurance of future profitability. We have incurred losses in each fiscal year since inception. We had a net loss of approximately $4.5 million for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2010 and a net loss of approximately $9.6 million for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2009. As of December 28, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $55.7 million. We cannot assure you that we will successfully increase our revenue. Even if we substantially increase our revenue, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability or positive cash flow. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot assure you that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future because our operating results can be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, economic conditions, and the level of competition in our markets. Disruptions in the national economy and the financial markets have adversely impacted our business and may further impact our business. The restaurant industry has been adversely affected by current economic factors, including the deterioration of national, regional and local economic conditions, declines in employment levels, and shifts in consumer spending patterns. Disruptions in the overall economy and volatility in the financial markets have reduced, and may continue to reduce, consumer confidence in the economy, negatively affecting consumer restaurant spending, and which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. As a result, any decrease in cash flow generated from our business could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to fund our operations. In addition, macroeconomic disruptions, as well as the restructuring of various commercial and investment banking organizations, could adversely affect our ability to access the credit and equity markets. This disruption in the credit and equity markets has also adversely affected the availability of financing for our operations and future expansion. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets, or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. If the disruption in the economy continues to adversely affect revenue, we can give no assurance that we can reduce costs to a level necessary to offset potentially lower revenue. Depending upon the future economic conditions, we may need to raise capital and/or close restaurants to continue operating. DHW has substantial control over us, which could reduce your ability to receive a premium for your shares through a change in control. In October 2009, DHW, an entity controlled by Donald A. Dunham, Jr., one of our directors, came to beneficially own a majority of our outstanding common stock. As of February 15, 2011, DHW beneficially owned 63.2% of our common stock. In addition, under the debt conversion agreement dated September 21, 2009, DHW elected four persons to serve on our board of directors, including Mr. Dunham, and until September 21, 2011, DHW has the right to participate in private placements of our equity (on the same terms as other investors) so that DHW may maintain its then percentage ownership of our common stock. Finally, DHW and affiliated Dunham entities are the landlord for 17 of our locations. As a result of the foregoing, DHW has a 13 Table of Contents significant influence on the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval independent of how our other shareholders may vote, including: •the election of our directors; •any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; •the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; and •the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit our other shareholders. This concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. The decline in visitors to the retail centers, shopping malls, or entertainment centers where our restaurants are located has negatively affected and could continue to negatively affect our restaurant sales and may require us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, lifestyle centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. Given current economic conditions, consumers have been under increased economic pressures and as a result, many have changed their discretionary spending patterns. Many consumers are dining out less frequently than in the past and/or have decreased the amount they spend on meals while dining out. As guest traffic decreases, lower sales result in decreased leverage that leads to declines in operating margins. If visitor rates to these centers continue to decline due to economic or political conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, further changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, higher frequency of online shopping, further changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing gasoline prices, or otherwise, our revenue could decline and adversely affect our results of operations, including the possible need to record an impairment charge for restaurants that are performing below expectations. Changes in discretionary consumer spending could negatively impact our results. Our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence. In a weak economy, our customers have reduced and may continue to reduce their level of discretionary spending which impacts the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out and the amount they spend when they do dine out, thereby reducing our revenue. Adverse economic conditions could continue to reduce guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our geographic concentration could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate restaurants in the Midwestern United States and may be particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this geographic market, including its labor market, which could adversely impact our operating results. Less mature restaurants may vary in profitability and levels of operating revenue. Less mature restaurants typically experience higher operating costs in both dollars and as a percentage of revenue when compared to mature restaurants due to the inefficiencies typically associated with less mature restaurants. Some or all of our less mature restaurants may not attain operating results similar to those of our mature restaurants. We are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing space subject to long-term non-cancelable leases. Our leases generally are long term in nature. While several lease terms have been reduced as a result of the October 2009 debt conversion transaction with DHW, most of our leases have 13 to 20 years remaining on their terms with options to renew in five-year increments (at increased rates). 14 Table of Contents All of our leases require fixed annual rent, although some require payment of additional contingent rent if restaurant sales exceed a negotiated amount. Generally, our leases are "triple net" leases, which require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. Future sites that we lease are likely to be subject to similar long-term non-cancelable leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the second and third quarters of each year. As a result, it is probable that our quarterly operating results and comparable restaurant sales will continue to fluctuate as a result of seasonality. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year and comparable restaurant sales of any particular future period may decrease. You should not rely on past increases in our average restaurant revenues or our comparable restaurant sales as an indication of future operating results because they may fluctuate significantly. A number of factors historically have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our average restaurant revenue and/or comparable restaurant sales, including, among other factors: •our ability to execute our business strategy effectively; •our ability to expand; •initial sales performance by our restaurants; •the timing of future restaurant openings and related expenses; •levels of competition in one or more of our markets; and •general economic conditions and consumer confidence. Our average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales have decreased since 2007. Continued decreases in our average restaurant revenue and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to decrease. Our profitability depends in large measure on food, beverage and supply costs which are not within our control. We must anticipate and react to changes in food, beverage and supply costs. Various factors beyond our control, including climatic changes and government regulations, may affect food and beverage costs. Specifically, our dependence on frequent, timely deliveries of fresh beef, poultry, seafood and produce subjects us to the risks of possible shortages or interruptions in supply caused by adverse weather or other conditions, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of any such items. Historically, commodity prices have fluctuated, often increasing, due to seasonal or economic issues and we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate or react to increasing food and supply costs in the future. We are also subject to the general risks of inflation. Our restaurants' operating margins are further affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the restaurants depend for their energy supply. The failure to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages, increased food and beverage costs, and quality control problems. We have entered into contracts through 2016 with certain suppliers of raw materials (primarily hops) for minimum purchases both in terms of quantity and in pricing. However, if the national distributor that provides food and beverages to all our restaurants, or other distributors or 15 Table of Contents suppliers, cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. If these alternative suppliers do not meet our specifications, the consistency and quality of our food and beverage offerings, and thus our reputation, guest patronage, revenue and results of operations, could be adversely affected. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to successfully and sufficiently raise menu prices to address cost increases could result in a decline in margins. We utilize menu price increases to help offset cost increases, including increased costs for food commodities (such as pork, beef, fish, poultry and dairy products), minimum wages, employee benefits, insurance arrangements, construction, energy, fuel, and other costs. Although we have not experienced significant consumer resistance to our past price increases, we cannot provide assurance that future price increases will not deter guests from visiting our restaurants or affect their purchasing decisions. If we are unsuccessful at raising prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. The need for additional advertising may arise, which could increase our operating expenses. We have generally relied on our high profile locations, operational excellence, "word-of-mouth," and limited paid advertising to attract and retain restaurant guests. During 2010, our radio and television advertising costs accounted for less than one percent of our net sales. Should we conclude that additional paid advertising is necessary to attract and retain guests, our operating expenses could increase and our financial results could be adversely affected. Changes in consumer preferences as a result of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health could negatively impact our results. Our operating results may be affected by changes in guest tastes, the popularity of handcrafted beers, general economic and political conditions and the level of competition in our markets. Our continued success depends, in part, upon the popularity of micro-brewed beers and casual, broad menu restaurants. Shifts in consumer preferences away from these beers and this dining style could materially adversely affect any future profitability. In addition, our success depends on our ability to adapt our menu to trends in food consumption. If consumer eating habits change significantly and we are unable to respond with appropriate menu offerings, it could materially affect demand for our menu offerings resulting in lost customers and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Health concerns or negative publicity regarding our restaurants or food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Like other restaurant chains, consumer preferences could be affected by health concerns or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally, such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, E. coli, "mad cow" or "foot-and-mouth" disease, publication of government or industry findings concerning food products served by us, or other health concerns or operating issues stemming from one restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. This negative publicity may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in customer traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to recruit, motivate and retain qualified employees. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including trained brewing personnel, restaurant managers, kitchen staff and wait staff. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions could be in short supply in one or more of our markets. In addition, our success depends upon the skill and experience of our restaurant-level management teams. Our inability to recruit, motivate and retain such individuals may result in high employee turnover 16 Table of Contents which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages and provide additional benefits to attract sufficient employees, which could result in higher labor costs. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the performance and continued service of members of our senior management and certain other key employees. Competition for employees with such specialized training and deep backgrounds in the restaurant industry is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. In addition, we cannot assure you that employees will not leave or compete against us. If the services of any member of management become unavailable for any reason, it could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to successfully compete with other restaurants in our markets. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. There are many well-established competitors with greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than ours, and many of such competitors are well established in the markets where we have restaurants. Additionally, other companies may develop restaurants with similar concepts in our markets. Any inability to successfully compete with restaurants in our markets could prevent us from increasing or sustaining our revenue and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may also need to make changes to our established concept in order to compete with new and developing restaurant concepts that become popular within our markets. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing such changes or that these changes will not reduce any future profitability. Our success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary information. Failure to protect our trademarks, service marks or trade secrets could adversely affect our business. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Granite City Food & Brewery name. Although our service marks are federally registered trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, our trademarks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. We rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate, however, and others could independently develop similar know-how or obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts and recipes. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties' rights that could interfere with our use of trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts or recipes. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, managers, and suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Our operations depend upon governmental licenses or permits. Our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required food service, liquor and brewing licenses for each of our restaurants. If we fail to hold all necessary licenses, we may be forced to close affected restaurants or limit the food and beverage offerings at our affected locations. We must comply with federal licensing requirements imposed by the United States Department of Treasury, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, as well as licensing requirements of states and municipalities where we operate restaurants. Failure to comply with federal, state or local regulations could cause our licenses to be revoked or force us to cease brewing and selling our beer. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked and suspended for cause at any time. Although we do not anticipate any significant problems in obtaining required licenses, permits or approvals, any delays or failures to obtain required licenses, permits or approvals could delay existing operations or future expansion. We 17 Table of Contents are at risk that state regulations concerning brewery restaurants or the interpretation of these regulations may change. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase our operating costs and restrict future expansion. We are subject to a variety of federal and state labor laws, such as minimum wage and overtime pay requirements, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation insurance rates and citizenship requirements. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence and mandated health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements could increase our labor costs and reduce our operating margins. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to make modifications to our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. We may face liability under dram shop statutes. Our sale of alcoholic beverages subjects us to "dram shop" statutes in some states. These statutes allow an injured person to recover damages from an establishment that served alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person. If we receive a judgment substantially in excess of our insurance coverage, or if we fail to maintain our insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are, from time to time, the subject of complaints or litigation from guests alleging food borne illness, injury or other food quality, health or operational concerns. We may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such allegations, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable. We are also subject to complaints or allegations from former or current employees from time to time. A lawsuit or claim could result in an adverse decision against us that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs and expense of defending ourselves against lawsuits or claims, regardless of merit, could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause variability in our results compared to expectations. Our operations are susceptible to the effects of violence, war and economic trends. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war and U.S. military reactions to such attacks may negatively affect our operations and an investment in our shares of common stock. Acts of violence or war could cause a decrease in travel and in consumer confidence, decrease consumer spending, result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy, or result in economic disruption in the United States or abroad. They could also impact consumer leisure habits, for example, by increasing time spent watching television news programs at home, and may reduce the number of times consumers dine out, which could adversely impact our revenue. Any of these occurrences could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and may result in volatility of the market price for our common stock and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Terrorist attacks could also directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers, and attacks or armed conflicts may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and could adversely affect our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure and financial accounting standards may result in additional expenses and affect our reported results of operations. Keeping informed of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting standards, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new and proposed SEC regulations, NASDAQ Stock Market rules and accounting standards, has required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. Compliance with such requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and an increased allocation of management time and attention to compliance activities. Additionally, changes to existing rules or current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results. 18 Table of Contents We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could be adversely affected. In addition, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with its audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that they are unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we could receive a qualified or adverse audit opinion on those financial statements. In that event, the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. Because the value of our business depends primarily upon intangible assets, such as our business concept, the value of your investment could decrease significantly in the event of liquidation. Because we do not own the real estate at any existing locations, we only own the building at one existing location and we lease much of the equipment we use, our tangible assets mainly consist of inventory. Until we establish a history of earnings, the value of our business that could be realized upon liquidation is comprised of primarily intangible assets, including our business concept, business strategy, intellectual property, trademarks, goodwill and employee know-how. If our business is not successful, the value of our intangible assets could decrease significantly. The value of your investment could decrease as a result. Increases in state or federal minimum wage or required benefits could negatively impact our operating results. Various federal and state labor laws govern our relationship with our employees, including such matters as minimum wage requirements, overtime and working conditions. There have been increases in the federal and some state minimum wage requirements, and there may be additional increases in the future. Some states in which we operate, specifically Illinois and Ohio, have minimum wages that are higher than the federal level. A substantial majority of employees working in our restaurants receive compensation equal to the applicable minimum wage, and future increases in the minimum wage will increase our operating expenses. In addition, some states have periodically proposed laws that would require companies such as ours to provide health benefits to all employees. Additional governmental mandates such as an increased minimum wage, an increase in paid leaves of absence, extensions of health benefits or increased tax reporting and payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, could negatively impact our operating results. Limitations in our insurance coverage could adversely affect our operations in certain circumstances. We have comprehensive insurance, including workers' compensation, employee practices liability, general liability, business interruption, fire and extended coverage and property insurance. However, there are certain types of losses which may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Such hazards may include earthquake, hurricane and flood losses. If such a loss should occur, we would, to the extent that we are not covered for such loss by insurance, suffer a loss of the capital invested in, as well as anticipated profits and/or cash flow from, such damaged or destroyed properties. Punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance; thus, any awards of punitive damages as to which we may be liable could adversely affect our ability to continue to conduct our business or to develop future restaurants. We cannot assure you that any insurance coverage we maintain will be adequate, that we can continue to obtain and maintain such insurance at all, or that the premium costs will not rise to an extent that they adversely affect our business or our ability to economically obtain or maintain such insurance. Risks Related to Future Restaurant Expansion If the transaction with CDP, which remains subject to approval by our shareholders, is not completed, we may be unable to pursue our growth plans and would incur significant expense. If the 19 Table of Contents above-referenced transaction is not completed, we will not receive the expected benefits of the transaction which include: •establishing a $10.0 million third-party credit facility, which is a condition to closing that would enable us to execute our growth strategy of building new restaurants, creating private dining rooms and expanding bar areas of existing restaurants and improving our technology; •restructuring certain of our leases and obtaining permanent rent reductions; •replacing our current majority shareholder, DHW, with CDP, a portfolio company of CIC II LP, a fund of CIC Partners Firm LP, a private equity firm with significant experience in investing in restaurants; and •employing Robert J. Doran as our chief executive officer and Dean S. Oakey as our chief concept officer, electing five new directors designated by CDP to our board and benefitting from their experience in the restaurant industry. In certain circumstances, termination of our stock purchase agreement with CDP would require us to pay CDP its expenses up to $500,000 and a break-up fee of $500,000. Alternatively, if either we or CDP terminate the agreement because our shareholders do not approve the transaction or the lenders to our company under the forthcoming credit facility withdraw, we would be required to pay CDP either $100,000 plus 200,000 shares of our common stock or $200,000, at CDP's discretion. In either case, we would also continue to be responsible for our transaction costs, including our legal fees and the fees paid in connection with the fairness opinion obtained in connection with the transaction, as well as the consulting fees paid to CDP, which we estimate will total approximately $600,000. Finally, we believe that failure to close the transaction with CDP would likely have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, which increased substantially following the announcement of the proposed transaction. We have significant capital needs and cannot give assurance that financing will be available to us to pursue future expansion. We require significant capital for our operations and for future expansion. We have had no restaurant expansion since February 1, 2009 due to concerns over the economy and the lack of capital to develop additional restaurants. Because our available sources of liquidity are currently insufficient to fund expansion, we would need to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities or debt to fund growth, if we are unable to complete the CDP transaction. If we are able to complete the CDP transaction and obtain a $10.0 million credit facility, we expect to commence a program to enhance existing restaurants to increase their revenue potential and develop at least one new restaurant within 12 months following the closing of the CDP transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the CDP transaction or obtain future financing on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional capital in the future through the issuance and sale of equity securities, the sales may be at prices below the market price of our common stock, and our shareholders may suffer significant dilution. Future debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. The failure to obtain financing for future growth could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, if future debt financing does become available, we may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates will also affect our lease rates and can be expected to adversely impact our operating results. Costs associated with the proposed stock issuance to CDP could adversely affect our financial results. We are undertaking substantial costs related to obtaining shareholder approval for, and closing, the transactions contemplated by the proposed stock purchase agreement with CDP and the stock repurchase agreement with DHW. If the transactions are delayed or not completed, we could incur costs that would reduce our working capital base. Additionally, costs associated with the transactions, if 20 Table of Contents not completed, would be recorded as an expense on our statement of operations, thus increasing our overall net loss. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to expand in a timely and profitable manner. To continue to grow, we must open new restaurants on a profitable basis. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. Future expansion may be delayed or curtailed: •if we are unable to obtain acceptable equipment financing of restaurants; •if future cash flows from operations fail to meet our expectations; •if costs and capital expenditures for restaurant development exceed anticipated amounts; •if we incur unanticipated expenditures related to our operations; or •if we are required to reduce prices to respond to competitive pressures. We estimate that our cost of opening a new Granite City Food & Brewery restaurant, leased from a third party, ranges from $1.0 million to $1.5 million, which includes furniture, fixtures and equipment and pre-opening costs. This assumes land and building costs are financed by a developer under a sale-leaseback arrangement. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant, conditions in the local real estate and employment markets, and leasing arrangements. Even with adequate financing, we may experience delays in restaurant openings which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to expand in the future depends upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •identification and availability of suitable restaurant sites; •competition for restaurant sites; •securing required governmental approvals, licenses and permits; •the availability of, and our ability to obtain, adequate supplies of ingredients that meet our quality standards; and •recruitment of qualified operating personnel, particularly general managers and kitchen managers. In addition, we may enter geographic markets in which we have no prior operating experience. These new markets may have demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns different than those present in our existing markets, which may cause any new restaurants to be less successful than our existing restaurants. Unanticipated costs or delays in the development or construction of future restaurants could prevent our timely and cost-effective opening of future restaurants. We rely upon contractors for the construction of our restaurants. After construction, we invest heavily in leasehold improvements for completion of our restaurants. Many factors could adversely affect the costs and time associated with development of future restaurants, including: •availability of labor; •shortages of construction materials and skilled labor; •management of construction and development costs of restaurants; •adverse weather; 21 Table of Contents •unforeseen construction problems; •environmental problems; •zoning problems; •federal, state and local government regulations, including licensing requirements; •modifications in design; and •other increases in costs. Any of these factors could give rise to delays or cost overruns which may prevent us from developing future restaurants within anticipated budgets and expected development schedules. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to manage future expansion. Even if we are able to recommence expansion, we will face many additional business risks, including the risk that our existing management, information systems and financial controls will be inadequate. We cannot predict whether we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that future expansion will impose on management and these systems and controls. Future expansion also will place increased demands on human resources, purchasing and restaurant opening teams. If we fail to continue to improve management, information systems and financial controls, or if we encounter unexpected difficulties during future expansion, we may be unable to grow and/or maintain current levels of operating performance in our existing restaurants. Risks Related to our Securities Fluctuations in our operating results may decrease the price of our securities. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including the operating results of our restaurants, changes in food and labor costs, increases or decreases in comparable restaurant sales, general economic conditions, consumer confidence in the economy, changes in consumer preferences, nutritional concerns and discretionary spending patterns, competitive factors, the skill and the experience of our restaurant-level management teams, the maturity of each restaurant, adverse weather conditions in our markets, our ability to recommence our expansion plans, and the timing of future restaurant openings and related expenses. Consequently, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors for any given reporting period. In that event, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Shareholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. We cannot assure you of an active public market for our common stock. Selling our common stock may be difficult because of the limited quantity of shares that may be bought and sold in the public market, the possibility that transactions may be delayed, and a low level of security analyst and news media coverage. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Minnesota law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider in their best interests. Anti-takeover provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Minnesota law could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then current market price of our common stock. For example, our board of directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of our common stock. Subject to shareholder approval of the stock purchase agreement with CDP and the related issuance, we intend to issue 3,000,000 shares of 9% 22 Table of Contents Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to CDP. In addition, our Amended and Restated Bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for the nomination of candidates to our board of directors that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding "control share acquisitions" and "business combinations." We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our board of directors to issue undesignated preferred stock, our advance notice procedure for nominations, and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our board of directors. If we do not maintain our NASDAQ listing, you may have difficulty reselling our shares. We need to maintain certain financial and corporate governance qualifications to keep our shares listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. We cannot assure you that we will at all times meet the criteria for continued listing. If we fail to maintain such qualifications, including a minimum bid price of $1.00, our shares may be delisted. In December 2009, NASDAQ transitioned the listing of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. We requested this transition to avoid delisting from NASDAQ due to our failure to comply with NASDAQ's $15 million market value of public float requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We implemented a reverse stock split in January 2010 due to our failure to comply with NASDAQ's $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There can be no assurance that our stock price will continue to meet the minimum bid price requirement under NASDAQ's rules. In addition, we could also be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market if we fail to maintain compliance with the other requirements for continued listing on such market. In the event of delisting, trading, if any, would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the so-called "pink sheets". In addition, our shares could become subject to the SEC's "penny stock rules." These rules would impose additional requirements on broker-dealers who effect trades in our shares, other than trades with their established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, the delisting of our shares and the applicability of the penny stock rules may adversely affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our shares, which may adversely affect your ability to resell our shares. If any of these events take place, you may not be able to sell as many shares as you desire, you may experience delays in the execution of your transactions and our shares may trade at a lower market price than they otherwise would. A substantial number of shares are eligible for future sale by our current investors and the sale of those shares could adversely affect our stock price. In February 2010, we registered for resale approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants or the conversion of convertible debt. If these shares, or additional shares that may be eligible for resale into the market, are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 