Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating us as a company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. The economic conditions in the United States and around the world could adversely affect our financial results. Demand for our services depends upon worldwide economic conditions, including but not limited to overall economic growth rates, consumer spending, financing availability, employment rates, interest rates, inflation, consumer confidence, and the profits, capital spending, and liquidity of large OEMs that we serve. The economic recession in the markets we serve has caused and could continue to cause our OEM customers to reduce ordering levels, resulting in reschedules, program delays or cancelled orders of our services having an adverse effect on our business and our financial results. We operate in the highly competitive and fragmented contract machining industry. We compete against many contract machining companies. We also compete with OEM in-house operations that are continually evaluating manufacturing products internally against the advantages of outsourcing. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with excess capacity, lower cost structures and availability of lower cost labor. The availability of excess manufacturing capacity of our competitors also creates competitive pressure on price and winning new business. To respond to competitive pressures, we may be required to reduce our prices to customers or increase discounts to customers, which would result in lower gross profit margins and decreased revenue. These factors also impact the Company’s ability to obtain additional manufacturing programs and retain our current programs. Controlling manufacturing costs is a significant factor in operating results. The Company’s ability to manage its costs on existing manufacturing programs and its ability to curtail costs and expenses on potential new manufacturing programs could have a significant impact on the Company’s operating results. 3 Table of Contents A large percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers in a small number of highly competitive industries, and the loss of a major customer would adversely affect us. In fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, one customer in the recreational vehicle market accounted for 67%, 63% and 51% of our revenue, respectively. In addition, in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, one customer in the energy industry accounted for 18%, 24% and 30% of our revenue, respectively. If there is a loss of one or more of these major customers or a significant decline in sales to either of these major customers it could have an adverse effect on our results from operations. Operating results may vary significantly from period to period. We can experience significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. One of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations is the significant changes in our customer’s delivery requirements. Results of operations in any period, therefore, should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Significant fluctuations in our revenue and operating results could also impact the Company’s ability to comply with its debt covenants of its credit facilities. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Additionally, as of August 28, 2011, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to a material weakness in the areas of segregation of duties and adequacy of personnel resulting from a staff reduction in the quarter ended May 31, 2009. Because of this material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, we may be more susceptible to misstatements in our financial statements or incidences of fraud. However, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurances with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue in the future. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include quarterly fluctuations in our financial results, customer contract awards, and general economic and political conditions in our various markets. In addition, the stock prices of small public contract manufacturing companies have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. This market volatility may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Complying with securities laws and regulations is costly for us. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including regulations promulgated by the SEC and Nasdaq, are creating particular challenges for smaller publicly-held companies like us. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting have required, and will continue to require, the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. In addition to Sarbanes-Oxley, we will also be required to expend financial and managerial resources to comply with the SEC requirement that mandates that our quarterly and yearly filings with them be in an XBRL readable format. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 4 Table of Contents 