ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our shareholders. We refer to the shares of beneficial interest in Washington Real Estate Investment Trust as our “shares,” and the investors who own shares as our "shareholders." This section includes or refers to certain forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on such forward-looking statements beginning on page 47. Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets are subject to the risk that if our office, medical office, industrial, multifamily and retail properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the revenues generated by our commercial and multifamily properties: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic climate; • competition from similar asset type properties; • local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for office, industrial, multi-family or retail properties; 6 • changes in interest rates and availability of financing; • vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-let space; • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; • inflation; • weather conditions; • consumer confidence, unemployment rates, and consumer tastes and preferences; • civil disturbances, earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; and • the economic health of our tenants and the ability to collect rents. We are dependent upon the economic climate of the Washington metropolitan region. All of our properties are located in the Washington metropolitan region which exposes us to a greater amount of risk than if we were geographically diverse. General economic conditions and local real estate conditions in our geographic region may be dependent upon one or more industries, thus, a downturn in one of the industries may have a particularly strong effect. In particular, economic conditions in our market are directly affected by Federal government spending in the region. In the event of reduced Federal spending or negative economic changes in our region, we may experience a negative impact to our profitability and may be limited in our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We face risks associated with property acquisitions. We intend to continue to acquire properties which would continue to increase our size and could alter our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and success may be exposed to the following risks: • we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors, including publicly traded real estate investment trusts, institutional investment funds and private investors; • even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations have findings that are unacceptable; • competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; • we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms; • acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investments; and • our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without recourse, or with limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if liability were asserted against us based upon the acquisition of a property, we may have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. 7 We face new and different risks associated with property development. The ground-up development of Bennett Park, formerly Rosslyn Towers, The Clayborne Apartments, formerly South Washington Street, and Dulles Station, as opposed to renovation and redevelopment of an existing property, is a relatively new activity for WRIT. Developing properties, in addition to the risks historically associated with our business, presents a number of new and additional risks for us, including risks that: • the development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred, if we are unable to obtain all necessary zoning and other required governmental permits and authorizations or abandon the project for any other reason; • the development and construction costs of the project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and increased materials, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make the completion of the project less profitable because market rents may not increase sufficiently to compensate for the increase in construction costs; • construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all, which may cause the cost of the project to increase and lower the expected return; • the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions and material shortages, which would result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses; and • occupancy rates and rents at the newly completed property may not meet the expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. Properties developed or acquired for development may generate little or no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of development. In addition, new development activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of management’s time and attention. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, the trading price of our common shares, and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders. We face potential difficulties or delays renewing leases or re-leasing space. From 2007 through 2011, leases on our commercial properties will expire on a total of approximately 69% of our leased square footage as of December 31, 2006, with leases on approximately 11% of our leased square footage expiring in 2007, 12% in 2008, 15% in 2009, 18% in 2010 and 13% in 2011. We derive substantially all of our income from rent received from tenants. Also, if our tenants decide not to renew their leases, we may not be able to re-let the space. If tenants decide to renew their leases, the terms of renewals, including the cost of required improvements or concessions, may be less favorable than current lease terms. As a result, our cash flow could decrease and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Residential properties are leased under operating leases with terms of generally one year or less. For the years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, the residential tenant retention rate was 68%, 57% and 59%, respectively. We face potential adverse effects from major tenants’ bankruptcies or insolvencies. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may adversely affect the income produced by a property. Although we have not experienced material losses from tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies in the past, a major tenant could file for bankruptcy protection or become insolvent in the future. We cannot evict a tenant solely because of its bankruptcy. On the other hand, a court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease. In such case, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and, our claim for unpaid rent 8 would likely not be paid in full. This shortfall could adversely affect our cash flow and results from operations. If a tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other types of financial distress, it may be unable to make timely rental payments. Our properties face significant competition. We face significant competition from developers, owners and operators of office, medical office, industrial, multifamily, retail and other commercial real estate. Substantially all of our properties face competition from similar properties in the same market. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners being willing to make space available at lower prices than the space in our properties. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other laws could result in substantial costs. The Americans with Disabilities Act generally requires that public buildings, including commercial and multifamily properties, be made accessible to disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the Federal government or the award of damages to private litigants. If, pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We may also incur significant costs complying with other regulations. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may incur fines or private damage awards. We believe that our properties are currently in material compliance with all of these regulatory requirements. However, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that will adversely affect our cash flow and results from operations. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We carry insurance coverage on our properties of types and in amounts that we believe are in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. The property insurance that we maintain for our properties has historically been on an "all risk" basis, which is in full force and effect until renewal in September 2007. There are other types of losses, such as from wars or catastrophic acts of nature, for which we cannot obtain insurance at all or at a reasonable cost. In the event of an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated from the affected property and the capital we have invested in the affected property. Depending on the specific circumstances of the affected property it is possible that we could be liable for any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could adversely affect our business and financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have to renew our policies in most cases on an annual basis and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases. Any material increase in insurance rates or decrease in available coverage in the future could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. Under Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our properties, regardless of our knowledge or responsibility, simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of 9 the real estate. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration are increasingly involved in indoor air quality standards, especially with respect to asbestos, mold and medical waste. The clean up of any environmental contamination, including asbestos and mold, can be costly. If unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments which could adversely affect our cash flow, because: • as owner or operator we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination; • the law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination; • even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs; and • governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial and in extreme cases could exceed the value of the contaminated property. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. We have a storage tank third party liability, corrective action and cleanup policy in place to cover potential hazardous releases from underground storage tanks on our properties. This insurance is in place to mitigate any potential remediation costs from the effect of releases of hazardous or toxic substances from these storage tanks. Additional coverage is in place under a pollution legal liability real estate policy. This would, dependent on circumstance and type of pollutants discovered, provide further coverage above and beyond the storage tank policy. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. Such laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos: • properly manage and maintain the asbestos; • notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos; and • undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. It is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct Phase I environmental site assessments and asbestos surveys with respect to our acquisition of properties. These assessments generally include a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the properties and the surrounding areas and a review of relevant state, Federal and historical documents, but do not involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. Where appropriate, on a property-by-property basis, our practice is to have these consultants conduct additional testing, including sampling for asbestos, for mold, for lead in drinking water, for soil contamination where underground storage tanks are or were located or where other past site usages create a potential environmental problem, and for contamination in groundwater. Even though these environmental assessments are conducted, there is still the risk that: • the environmental assessments and updates did not identify all potential environmental liabilities; • a prior owner created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the assessments; 10 • new environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were conducted; and • future uses or conditions such as changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in environmental liability to us. Recently enacted changes in securities laws are likely to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, has required changes in some of our corporate governance and accounting practices. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange has promulgated a number of regulations. We expect these laws, rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to continue to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to continue to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we incur significantly higher costs to obtain coverage. These laws, rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of trustees, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund acquisitions and developments, including refinancing risk. We rely on borrowings under our credit facilities to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. If we were unable to borrow under our credit facilities, or to refinance existing indebtedness, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow may be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest. We anticipate that only a small portion of the principal of our debt will be repaid prior to maturity. Therefore, we are likely to need to refinance at least a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. Rising interest rates would increase our interest costs. We may incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service debt. As a protection against rising interest rates, we may enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate exchange contracts. These agreements, however, increase our risks including other parties to the agreements not performing or that the agreements may be unenforceable. Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our financial condition. Our credit facilities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. We must maintain certain ratios, including total debt to assets, secured debt to total assets, debt service coverage and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow under our credit facilities is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under our unsecured credit facilities or other debt instruments could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. This could cause our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and would therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and liquidity. 11 Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if additional equity securities are issued to finance future developments and acquisitions instead of incurring additional debt. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing. Failure to qualify as a REIT would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT and intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT we could face serious tax consequences that could substantially reduce the funds available for payment of dividends for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to shareholders in computing our taxable income and could be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the Federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we are disqualified; and • all dividends would be subject to tax as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits potentially eligible as “qualified dividends” subject to the 15% income tax rate. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would no longer be required to pay dividends. As a result of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value of our shares. The market value of our securities can be adversely affected by many factors. As with any public company, a number of factors may adversely influence the public market price of our common shares, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • level of institutional interest in us; • perceived attractiveness of investment in WRIT, in comparison to other REITs; • attractiveness of securities of REITs in comparison to other asset classes taking into account, among other things, that a substantial portion of REITs’ dividends are taxed as ordinary income; • our financial condition and performance; • the market’s perception of our growth potential and potential future cash dividends; • government action or regulation, including changes in tax law; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead investors to expect a higher annual yield from our distributions in relation to the price of our shares; and • relatively low trading volume of shares of REITs in general, which tends to exacerbate a market trend with respect to our stock. 12 Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may limit a change in control of our company. There are several provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, that may limit the ability of a third party to acquire a change in control of our company, including: • a provision where a corporation is not required to engage in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” defined as any holder or affiliate of any holder of 10% or more of the corporation’s stock, for a period of five years pursuant to that holder becoming an “interested stockholder;” • a provision where the voting rights of “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition,” as defined in the law, may be restricted, such that the “control shares” have no voting rights, except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. These provisions may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control of our company that may involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 