Item 1A. Risk Factors.The Company faces a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with its operations. The most significant of these are described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may adversely affect the Company in the future. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events or developments described below occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.•Failure to Comply With Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Could Result in Loss of Access to U.S. Federal Student Loans and Grants Under Title IV, a Requirement to Pay Fines or Monetary Liabilities or Other SanctionsTo maintain Title IV eligibility, each group of schools combined into an OPEID unit must comply with the extensive statutory and regulatory requirements of the Higher Education Act and other laws relating to its financial aid management, educational programs, financial strength, facilities, recruiting practices and various other matters. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the loss or limitation of the eligibility of one or more of the KHE schools to participate in Title IV programs; a requirement to pay fines or to repay Title IV program funds; a denial or refusal by the ED to consider a school’s application for renewal of its certification to participate in the Title IV programs or for approval to add a new campus or educational program; a requirement to submit a letter of credit, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; or other sanctions. No assurance can be given that the Kaplan schools and programs currently participating in Title IV programs will maintain their Title IV eligibility, accreditation and state authorization in the future or that the ED might not successfully assert that one or more of such schools or programs have previously failed to comply with Title IV requirements. The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Program Reviews, Audits, Investigations and Other Reviews of KHE Schools Could Result in Findings of Failure to Comply With Statutory and Regulatory RequirementsKHE schools are subject to program reviews, audits, investigations and other compliance reviews conducted by various regulatory agencies and auditors, including, among others, the ED, the ED’s Office of the Inspector General, accrediting bodies and state and various other agencies, as well as annual audits by an independent certified public accountant of each OPEID unit’s compliance with Title IV statutory and regulatory requirements. These compliance reviews can result in findings of noncompliance with statutory and regulatory requirements that can, in turn, result in proceedings to impose fines, liabilities, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions against the school, including loss or limitation of its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Certain KHE schools are the subject of ongoing compliance reviews and lawsuits related to their compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and may be subject to future compliance reviews.KHE schools also have been, and may in the future be, subject to complaints and lawsuits by present or former students or employees or other people related to compliance with statutory, common law and regulatory requirements that, if successful, could result in monetary liabilities or fines or other sanctions.23•Reductions in the Amount of Funds Available to Students, Including Under Title IV Programs, in KHE Schools, Changes in the Terms on Which Such Funds Are Made Available or Loss or Limitation of Eligibility to Receive Such Funds, Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Kaplan’s Business and OperationsDuring the Company’s 2014 fiscal year, funds provided under the student financial aid programs created under Title IV accounted for approximately $806 million of the revenues of the schools in KHE. Any legislative, regulatory or other development that has the effect of materially reducing the amount of Title IV financial assistance or other funds available to the students of those schools would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and operations. In addition, any development that has the effect of making the terms on which Title IV financial assistance or other funds are available to students of those schools materially less attractive could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and operations.•Regulatory Changes Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Kaplan’s Business and OperationsThe implementation of new Title IV and other regulations required Kaplan to change its practices to comply with new requirements and has increased its administrative costs and overall risk. The changes to its practices or its inability to comply with the final regulations could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and results of operations. Moreover, the ED or other U.S. or international regulatory bodies could implement new regulations or amend existing regulations in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and results of operations.•Changes to the Regulations Regarding Incentive Compensation Make It Difficult for Kaplan to Attract Students and Retain Qualified Personnel and Add Compliance RiskUnder the incentive compensation rule, an institution participating in the Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV funds if such payment is based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid. On July 1, 2011, regulations went into effect that amended the incentive compensation rule by reducing the scope of permissible payments under the rule and expanding the scope of payments and employees subject to the rule. KHE modified some of its compensation practices as a result of the revisions to the incentive compensation rule. Due to a lack of clear guidance from the ED, KHE cannot assure that these modifications will in all cases be found to be in compliance with the ED’s interpretation of the regulations. Additionally, these changes to compensation arrangements make it difficult to attract students and to provide adequate incentives to promote superior job performance and retain qualified personnel. The Company believes that this change in Kaplan’s approach to recruiting has adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, Kaplan’s enrollment rates, operating costs, business and results of operations. The Company cannot predict how the ED will interpret and enforce all aspects of the revised incentive compensation rule in the future, and any changes in this regard could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and results of operations. •ED Rules Regarding Gainful Employment Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Kaplan’s Business and OperationsIn October 2014, the ED issued final regulations that tie an education program’s Title IV eligibility to whether the program leads to gainful employment. The regulations define an education program that leads to gainful employment as one that complies with gainful employment metrics relating to loan repayment rates of program graduates. Under the regulation effective July 1, 2015, if a program’s graduates’ debt payments exceed 8% of the graduates’ mean and median annual earnings and 20% of the graduates’ mean and median discretionary earnings, the program will be placed on a warning status requiring certain disclosures to the public. If a program is in a warning status for four consecutive years, it will become ineligible for Federal aid Title IV participation. In addition, if a program’s graduates’ debt payments exceed 12% of the graduates’ mean and median annual earnings and 30% of the graduates’ mean and median discretionary earnings, the program will fail the gainful employment test. If a program fails the test two times within three years, it will become ineligible for Federal aid Title IV participation. This could cause Kaplan to eliminate or limit enrollments in certain educational programs at some or all of its schools and could have a materially adverse effect on its business and operations.•Congressional Examination of For-Profit Education Could Lead to Legislation or Other Governmental Action That May Materially and Adversely Affect Kaplan’s Business and OperationsThere has been increased attention by Congress on the role that for-profit educational institutions play in higher education, including their participation in Title IV programs and tuition assistance programs for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Beginning in June 2010, the HELP Committee held a series of hearings to examine the for-profit education sector and requested information from various for-profit institutions, including KHE institutions. In July 2012, the majority staff of the HELP Committee issued a final report to conclude the review. The 24final report included observations and recommendations for Federal policy. The ultimate outcome of the HELP Committee review and any implications to the operation of KHE’s institutions remains unknown.Other committees of Congress have also held hearings into, among other things, the standards and procedures of accrediting agencies, credit hours and program length and the portion of U.S. Federal student financial aid going to for-profit institutions. Several legislators have variously requested the U.S. Government Accountability Office to review and make recommendations regarding, among other things, student recruitment practices; educational quality; student outcomes; the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in Title IV programs; and the percentage of proprietary institutions’ revenue coming from Title IV and other U.S. Federal funding sources. This increased activity, and other current and future activity, may result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting participation in Title IV programs and other governmental actions. In addition, concerns generated by congressional or other activity, or negative media reports, may adversely affect enrollment in for-profit educational institutions.Kaplan cannot predict the extent to which these activities could result in further investigations, legislation or rulemaking affecting its participation in Title IV programs, other governmental actions and/or actions by state agencies or legislators or by accreditors. If any laws or regulations are adopted that significantly limit Kaplan’s participation in Title IV programs or the amount of student financial aid for which Kaplan’s students are eligible, Kaplan’s results of operations and cash flows would be adversely and materially impacted.•The Kaplan Commitment Is Expected to Continue to Impact Operating ResultsIn the fourth quarter of 2010, KHE phased in a program called the Kaplan Commitment. Under this program, students of Kaplan University and KHE campuses enroll in classes for several weeks and assess whether their educational experience meets their needs and expectations before they incur any significant financial obligation. Students who choose to withdraw from the program during the risk-free period do not have to pay for the coursework. The Kaplan Commitment program and related initiatives could negatively impact the future operations of KHE, including student enrollments and retention, tuition revenues, operating income and cash flow. •Student Loan Defaults Could Result in Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV ProgramsA school may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if student defaults on the repayment of Title IV loans exceed specified rates, referred to as “cohort default rates.” The ED calculates a cohort default rate for each of KHE’s OPEID numbers. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate exceeds 40% for any single year lose their eligibility to participate in the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) program and Direct Loan programs for at least two fiscal years, effective 30 days after notification from the ED. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% for three consecutive years lose their Title IV eligibility to participate in the U.S. Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL), Direct Loan and U.S. Federal Pell Grant programs effective 30 days after notification from the ED and for at least two fiscal years. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30% in two of the three most recent fiscal years for which rates have been issued by the ED may be placed on provisional certification by the ED. The enactment in August 2008 of HEOA (which reauthorized the Higher Education Act) changed the methodology that will be used to calculate cohort default rates for future years. Under the revised law, the period of time for which student defaults are tracked and included in the cohort default rate calculation was increased from two years to three years, which has increased the cohort default rates for most institutions. This change became effective with the calculation of institutions’ cohort default rates for the U.S. Federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2009; those rates were issued by the ED in 2012. The ED did not impose sanctions based on rates calculated under this new methodology until rates for three consecutive years were fully calculated, which occurred in September 2014. The revised law also increased the threshold for ending an institution’s participation in certain Title IV programs from 25% to 30% for three consecutive years, effective for three-year cohort default rates issued beginning in fiscal year 2012. The revised law changed the threshold for placement on potential provisional certification to 30% for two of the three most recent fiscal years for which the ED has published official three-year cohort default rates. The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Title IV Revenues in Excess of U.S. Federally-Set Percentage Could Lead to Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs Under regulations referred to as the 90/10 rule, a KHE OPEID unit would lose its eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs for a period of at least two fiscal years if it derives more than 90% of its receipts from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years. Any OPEID reporting unit with receipts from the Title IV programs exceeding 90% for a single fiscal year would be placed on provisional certification and could be subject to other enforcement measures. The enactment of the U.S. Federal Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 increased student loan limits and the maximum amount of Pell Grants, which could result in an increase in the 25percentage of KHE’s receipts from Title IV programs. These increases, and any future increases or changes in the 90/10 calculation formula or any ED interpretation of what revenue may be included in the calculation, make it more difficult for institutions to comply with the 90/10 rule. If current trends continue, management estimates that in 2015, three of the KHE Campuses’ OPEID units, representing approximately 2.6% of KHE’s 2014 revenues, could have a 90/10 ratio over 90%.The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. •Failure to Maintain Institutional Accreditation Could Lead to Loss of Ability to Participate in Title IV ProgramsKHE’s online university and all of its ground campuses are institutionally accredited by either national or regional accreditors recognized by the ED. Accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the ED is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. KHE’s institutional accreditors conduct program reviews at KHE’s schools from time to time for a variety of reasons. Failure to resolve any concerns that may arise during such reviews could result in a loss of accreditation at the school. The loss of accreditation at any school would, among other things, render the affected Kaplan schools and programs ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on their business and operations.•Failure to Maintain Programmatic Accreditation Could Lead to Loss of Ability to Provide Certain Education Programs and Failure to Obtain Programmatic Accreditation May Lead to Declines in Enrollments in Unaccredited Programs Programmatic accreditation is the process through which specific programs are reviewed and approved by industry-specific and program-specific accrediting entities. Although programmatic accreditation is not generally necessary for Title IV eligibility, such accreditation may be required to allow students to sit for certain licensure exams or to work in a particular profession or career. Failure to obtain or maintain such programmatic accreditation may lead schools to discontinue programs that would not provide appropriate outcomes without that accreditation or may lead to a decline in enrollments in programs because of a perceived or real reduction in program value.•Failure to Maintain State Authorizations Could Cause Loss of Ability to Operate and to Participate in Title IV Programs in Some StatesKHE’s ground campuses and online university are subject to state-level regulation and oversight by state licensing agencies, whose approval is necessary to allow an institution to operate and grant degrees or diplomas in the state. Institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be legally authorized to operate in the state in which the institution is physically located. The loss of such authorization would preclude the campuses or online university from offering postsecondary education and render students ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. Loss of authorization at those state campus locations, or, in states that require it, for Kaplan University online, would have a material adverse effect on KHE’s business and operations.Some states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online education institutions that offer education services to residents in the state or to institutions that advertise or recruit in the state, notwithstanding the lack of a physical location in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, are imprecise or unclear in some states and are subject to change. If KHE is found not to be in compliance with an applicable state regulation and a state seeks to restrict one or more of KHE’s business activities within its boundaries, KHE may not be able to recruit or enroll students in that state and may have to cease providing services and advertising in that state.ED regulations that went into effect on July 1, 2011, expanded the requirements for an institution to be considered legally authorized in the state in which it is physically located for Title IV purposes. In some cases, the regulations require states to revise their current requirements and/or to license schools in order for institutions to be deemed legally authorized in those states and, in turn, to participate in the Title IV programs. If the states do not amend their requirements where necessary and if schools do not receive approvals where necessary that comply with these requirements, the institution could be deemed to lack the state authorization necessary to participate in the Title IV programs, which would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and operations.In addition, ED rules may require institutions offering postsecondary education to students through distance education in a state in which the institution is not physically located or in which it is otherwise subject to state jurisdiction, as determined by the state, to meet any state requirements for it to legally offer postsecondary distance education in that state. Furthermore, between February and April 2014, the ED convened a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations on a variety of topics that included state authorization for programs offered through distance education or correspondence education. While no new regulations have been issued, Kaplan believes that this process will ultimately result in new distance-education state authorization requirements that may require some of KHE’s schools and distance-education programs to obtain additional or revised state 26authorizations. If KHE is unable to obtain the required approvals, its students in the affected schools or programs may be unable to receive Title IV funds, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and operations.•Failure to Correctly Calculate or Timely Return Title IV Funds for Students Who Withdraw Prior to Completing Programs Could Result in a Requirement to Post a Letter of Credit or Other SanctionsED regulations require schools participating in Title IV programs to calculate correctly and return on a timely basis unearned Title IV funds disbursed to students who withdraw from a program of study prior to completion. These funds must be returned in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under ED regulations, failure to make timely returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in a school’s annual compliance audit could result in a requirement that the school post a letter of credit in an amount equal to 25% of its prior-year returns of Title IV program funds. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and returned in a timely manner, an institution may be subject to monetary liabilities, fines or other sanctions by the ED that could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s results of operations.•Failure to Demonstrate Financial Responsibility Could Result in a Requirement to Submit Letters of Credit to the ED, Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs or Other SanctionsAn institution participating in the Title IV programs must comply with certain measures of financial responsibility under the Higher Education Act and under ED regulations. Among other things, the applicable regulations require an institution to achieve a composite score of at least 1.5, as calculated under ED regulations, based on data in annual financial statements submitted to the ED. If an institution fails to achieve a composite score of 1.5 or fails to comply with other financial responsibility standards, the ED may place conditions on the institution’s participation in the Title IV programs and may require the institution to submit to the ED a letter of credit in an amount of at least 10% to 50% of the institution’s annual Title IV participation for its most recent fiscal year. The ED has measured the compliance of KHE schools based on the composite score of the division. If one or more of the institutions in KHE fail to meet the composite score standard or any of the other financial responsibility standards, those institutions may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED and possibly may be subject to other sanctions, including limitation or termination of their participation in Title IV programs. A requirement to post a letter of credit or the imposition of any one or more other sanctions by the ED could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s results of operations.•Failure to Demonstrate Administrative Capability Could Result in Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs or Other SanctionsED regulations specify extensive criteria that an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the required “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria include, but are not limited to, requirements relating to the institution’s compliance with all applicable Title IV requirements; the institution’s administration of Title IV programs; the institution’s compliance with certain reporting, disclosure and record-keeping obligations; and the institution’s ability to maintain cohort default rates below prescribed thresholds. Failure to comply with these criteria could result in the loss or limitation of the eligibility of one or more of the schools in KHE to participate in the Title IV programs, a requirement to pay fines or to repay Title IV program funds, a denial or refusal by the ED to consider a school’s application for renewal of its certification to participate in the Title IV programs, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions. Any one or more of these actions by the ED could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s results of operations.•Failure to Obtain Regulatory Approval of Transactions Involving a Change of Control May Result in Loss of Ability to Operate Schools or to Participate in U.S. Federal Student Financial Aid ProgramsIf one or more of KHE’s schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies, accrediting agencies or the ED, the schools governed by such agencies must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Failure of any of KHE’s schools to reestablish its state authorization, accreditation or ED certification following a change of control as defined by the applicable agency could result in a suspension of operating authority or suspension or loss of U.S. Federal student financial aid funding, which could have a material adverse effect on KHE’s student population and revenue.•Actions of Other Postsecondary Education Institutions and Related Media Coverage May Negatively Influence the Regulatory Environment and Kaplan’s ReputationThe HELP Committee hearings, along with other recent investigations and lawsuits, have included allegations of, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the U.S. and noncompliance with state and ED regulations. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage. Allegations against the overall student lending and postsecondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of private-sector educational institutions, including Kaplan, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding Kaplan directly could damage Kaplan’s reputation, reduce student demand for Kaplan programs, adversely impact its revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny.27•Changes in the Extent to Which Standardized Tests Are Used in the Admissions Process by Colleges or Graduate Schools Could Reduce Demand for KTP OfferingsA substantial portion of Kaplan’s revenue is generated by KTP. The source of this income is fees charged for courses that prepare students for a broad range of admissions examinations that are required for admission to colleges and graduate schools. Historically, colleges and graduate schools have required standardized tests as part of the admissions process. There has been some movement away from this historical reliance on standardized admissions tests among a small number of colleges that have adopted “test-optional” admissions policies. Any significant reduction in the use of standardized tests in the college or graduate school admissions process could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Changes in the Extent to Which Licensing and Proficiency Examinations Are Used to Qualify Individuals to Pursue Certain Careers Could Reduce Demand for Kaplan OfferingsA substantial portion of PACE and Kaplan International’s revenue comes from preparing individuals for licensing or technical proficiency examinations in various fields. Any significant relaxation or elimination of licensing or technical proficiency requirements in those fields served by PACE and Kaplan International’s businesses could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results.•System Disruptions and Security Threats to the Company’s Technology Infrastructure Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Its BusinessesKaplan’s reputation and ability to attract and retain students is highly dependent on the performance and reliability of its information technology platforms with respect to its online and campus-based education offerings. Kaplan’s delivery of these programs could be negatively affected due to events beyond its control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any such computer system error or failure could result in a significant outage that materially disrupts Kaplan’s online and on-ground operations.The Company’s computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. The Company has expended, and will continue to expend, significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, but its systems may still be vulnerable to these threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions or malfunctions in operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.•Failure to Successfully Assimilate Acquired Businesses Could Negatively Affect Kaplan’s BusinessThe Company’s Kaplan subsidiary has historically been an active acquirer of businesses that provide educational services. During 2014, Kaplan completed three acquisitions and expects to continue to acquire businesses from time to time. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in efficiently integrating the service offerings, accounting and other administrative systems of an acquired business; the challenges of assimilating and retaining key personnel; the consequences of diverting the attention of senior management from existing operations; the possibility that an acquired business does not meet or exceed the financial projections that supported the purchase price; and the possible failure of the due diligence process to identify significant business risks or undisclosed liabilities associated with the acquired business. A failure to effectively manage growth and integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Difficulties of Managing Foreign Operations Could Negatively Affect Kaplan’s BusinessKaplan has operations and investments in a growing number of foreign countries, including Australia, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Mexico, New Zealand, Nigeria, Singapore, the U.K. and Venezuela. Kaplan also conducts business in the Middle East. Operating in foreign countries presents a number of inherent risks, including the difficulties of complying with unfamiliar laws and regulations, effectively managing and staffing foreign operations, successfully navigating local customs and practices, preparing for potential political and economic instability and adapting to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Changes in International Regulatory and Physical Environments Could Negatively Affect International Student EnrollmentsA substantial portion of Kaplan International’s revenue comes from programs that prepare international students to study and travel to English-speaking countries, principally the U.S., the U.K., Australia and Singapore. Kaplan International’s ability to enroll students in these programs is directly dependent on its ability to comply with complex regulatory environments. A recent example of this is the immigration regulatory changes in the U.K., which impose recruitment quotas and stringent progress criteria as requirements for the maintenance of certain overseas student recruitment licenses. In addition, as of February 2015, the UKVI in the U.K. is undertaking a review of its Tier 4 sponsor guidance. The final version of this guidance could materially negatively impact the Kaplan businesses that 28hold a Tier 4 sponsor license. Any significant changes to the regulatory environment or a natural disaster or pandemic in either the students’ countries of origin or the countries to which they desire to travel or study could negatively affect Kaplan’s ability to attract and retain such students, which could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results.•Failure to Comply With Regulations Applicable to International Operations Could Negatively Impact Kaplan’s BusinessKaplan is subject to a wide range of regulations relating to its international operations. These include domestic laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as the local regulatory schemes of the countries in which Kaplan operates. Compliance with these regulations requires utmost vigilance. Failure to comply can result in the imposition of significant penalties or revocation of Kaplan’s authority to operate in the applicable jurisdiction, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results.•Changing Perceptions About the Effectiveness of Television Broadcasting in Delivering AdvertisingHistorically, television broadcasting has been viewed as a cost-effective method of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions by advertisers. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures away from television to other media outlets, the profitability of the Company’s television broadcasting business will suffer.•Increased Competition Resulting From Technological Innovations in News, Information and Video Programming Distribution SystemsThe development of DBS systems has significantly increased the competition faced by the Company’s cable systems. The continuing growth and technological expansion of Internet-based services has increased competitive pressure on the Company’s media businesses. The development and deployment of new technologies have the potential to negatively and significantly affect the Company’s businesses in ways that cannot now be reliably predicted and that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results.•Changes in the Nature and Extent of Government Regulations of Television Broadcasting, Cable and VoIP ServicesThe Company’s television broadcasting and cable businesses operate in highly regulated environments. The Company’s VoIP services business also is subject to a growing degree of regulation. Complying with applicable regulations has significantly increased, and may continue to increase, the costs and has reduced the revenues of these businesses. Changes in regulations have the potential to further negatively impact those businesses, not only by increasing compliance costs and reducing revenues through restrictions on certain types of advertising, limitations on pricing flexibility or other means, but also by possibly creating more favorable regulatory environments for the providers of competing services. More generally, all of the Company’s businesses could have their profitability or their competitive positions adversely affected by significant changes in applicable regulations.•Potential Liability for Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Businesses The Company periodically receives claims from third parties alleging that the Company’s businesses infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. It is likely that the Company will continue to be subject to similar claims, particularly as they relate to its media and cable businesses. For example, providers of services similar to those offered by Cable ONE have been the target of patent infringement claims from time to time relating to such matters as cable system architecture, electronic program guides, cable modem technology and VoIP services. Other parts of the Company’s business could also be subject to such claims. Addressing intellectual product claims is a time-consuming and expensive endeavor, regardless of the merits of the claims. In order to resolve such a claim, the Company could determine the need to change its method of doing business, enter into a licensing agreement or incur substantial monetary liability. It is also possible that one of the Company’s businesses could be enjoined from using the intellectual property at issue, causing it to significantly alter its operations. Although the Company cannot predict the impact at this time, if any such claim is successful, the outcome would likely affect the business utilizing the intellectual property at issue and could have a material adverse effect on that business’s operating results or prospects.•Failure to Comply With Privacy Laws or Regulations Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s BusinessVarious federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. This area of the law is evolving, and interpretations of applicable laws and regulations differ. Legislative activity in the privacy area may result in new laws that are relevant to the Company’s operations, for example, use of consumer data for marketing or advertising. Claims of failure to comply with the Company’s privacy policies or applicable laws or regulations could form the basis of governmental or private-party actions against the Company. Such claims and actions could cause damage to the Company’s reputation and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business.29•Extensive Regulation of the Health Care Industry Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Health Care Businesses and Results of OperationsThe home health and hospice industries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, with regulations affecting matters including licensure and certification, quality of services, qualifications of personnel, confidentiality and security of medical records, relationships with physicians and other referral sources, operating policies and procedures, and billing and coding practices. These laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted are subject to change. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the overall trend toward cost containment could result in insurers lowering payment rates, limiting service coverage and engaging in other measures to reduce costs. Reimbursement for services by third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance providers, may not be available, may be reduced or may be paid on the basis of revised standards as a result of changing regulations and policies. Managed-care organizations, hospitals, physician practices and other third-party payers continue to consolidate in response to the evolving regulatory environment, thereby enhancing their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and decreasing the number of organizations serving patients. This consolidation could adversely impact Celtic’s and Residential’s businesses if they are unable to maintain their ability to participate in established networks. Changes in existing laws or regulations, in their interpretation and enforcement, and the enactment of new laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s health care businesses’ operations.•The Proposed Spin-Off of Cable ONE May Not Be Completed on the Terms or Timeline Currently ContemplatedIn November 2014, the Company announced its plan for a tax-free spin-off of Cable ONE to the stockholders of the Company. The proposed spin-off may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. Unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the proposed spin-off, including possible problems or delays in obtaining various regulatory approvals or clearances and disruptions in the capital and other financial markets, among other things.Completion of the spin-off is subject to the satisfaction, or the Board of Directors’ waiver, of a number of conditions. In addition, the Company has the right not to complete the spin-off if, at any time, the Board of Directors determines, in its sole and absolute discretion, that the spin-off is not in the best interests of the Company or its stockholders or is otherwise not advisable.The Company has and will continue to incur expenses in connection with the proposed spin-off. In addition, completion of the proposed spin-off will require significant amounts of management’s time and effort which may divert management’s attention from operating and growing the Company’s business.•If the Spin-Off of Cable ONE Is Completed, It May Not Achieve the Intended ResultsIf the proposed spin-off is completed, the Company’s operational and financial profile will change upon the separation of the cable operations from its other businesses. As a result, diversification of the Company’s revenue sources will diminish. Further, shares of the Company’s common stock will represent an investment in a smaller company, with its business more concentrated in educational services. These changes may not meet some shareholders’ investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of Company common stock. Excessive selling could cause the relative market price of Company common stock to decrease following the consummation of the proposed spin-off. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.Not applicable.