D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various changing business, industry, competitive, economic, political and social conditions in China and worldwide. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our business and profitability are affected by global economic conditions. The coal industry depends on general economic conditions, including the conditions of global and local economies. For the past several years, the economies of the United States, Europe and certain countries in Asia experienced a severe and prolonged recession and China experienced a slowdown in overall economic growth, which has led to a reduction in economic activity. In 2013, the global economy remained slow growth. Meanwhile, PRC government has implemented economic reform and transformed the economic growth method. To achieve the target of energy-saving, emission-reduction as well as environmental protection, high energy consumption industries, such as coal industry and its downstream industries may be adversely affected, which may in turn materially and adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition depend on volatile domestic and international coal markets. Coal sales accounted for 96.0%, 96.7% and 96.5% of our revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and we expect our coal sales to continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue. As we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of coal and coal-related products, our business and operating results depend heavily upon supply and demand for coal and coal-related products in the domestic and international coal markets. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to downturns in the demand for coal, increases in supply of coal through new or expanded coal production and declines in coal prices. The prices of coal and coal-related products have historically been volatile and fluctuate in response to general economic conditions, supply and demand and the level of global inventories. In 2013, the sluggish global economy has led to weak demand for coal in both the PRC and the overseas markets and the average selling price of our coal products decreased as compared with that of 2012. The average selling price of our coal products was RMB709.1, RMB604.3 and RMB523.5 per tonne in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, representing a drop of RMB80.7 per tonne from 2012 to 2013, which in turn had a direct and adverse impact on our sales income. Our operating profit also decreased by 103.1% from 2012 to 2013. We cannot assure you that demand for and prices of coal will not further decline, the occurrence of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Global coal demand correlates strongly with the global economy and the performance of coal-consuming industries, including but not limited to the power generation, chemical, metallurgy and construction materials industries. In addition, the availability and prices of alternative energy sources to coal, as well as international shipping costs, also affect coal demand. Coal supply is primarily affected by the geographic location of coal reserves, transportation capacity, the level of domestic and international coal supplies and the type, quality and price of coal from various producers. Developments in the international coal market may adversely affect our overseas sales. A significant increase in global coal supply or reduction in demand for coal from key consuming industries may decrease coal prices, which in turn may significantly reduce our profitability and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with our sales contracts and strategic framework agreements, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our coal produced in China are made primarily on the spot market or pursuant to strategic framework agreements and to a lesser extent, pursuant to sales contracts. Sales of our coal produced in Australia are made pursuant to sales contracts and spot market sales. Our PRC sales contracts generally have terms of one year and specify the price, quantity and quality of coal and delivery schedule of coal. Our Australian sales contracts generally have terms of one year and specify the quantity and quality of coal and delivery schedule of coal, while the purchase price is determined every month or quarter by our customer and us, subject to market conditions. In 2013, due to the volatile international coal markets, customers purchasing our coal produced in Australia generally entered into quarterly contracts with us. As such, if we experience a weak coal pricing environment that results in a decline in coal prices at the time of actual delivery, our revenue and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our sales contracts are not automatically renewable. If we are not able to maintain our sales contracts with our major customers on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, the strategic framework agreements used in the sales of our coal produced in China generally only specify the quantity and quality of coal, while the purchase price is determined in the annual or monthly sales contracts we enter into under the strategic framework agreements. As a result, we are subject to market conditions at the time of actual delivery. Moreover, as letters of intent are not legally binding, customers entering into letters of intent with us are not obligated to purchase the agreed quantity of products, or any products at all. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, our customers do not enter into long-term contracts (those exceeding one year) with us. Therefore, we do not have long-term commitments from our customers to purchase our products, and our customers may reduce or stop purchasing products from us for various reasons, which may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, sales to any of these customers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our top five customers accounted for 19.4%, 19.4% and 16.5% of our revenue, respectively, and sales to our largest customer accounted for 8.5%, 6.3% and 5.8% of our revenue, respectively. We expect that our results of operations will continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to rely on these customers for revenue generation in the future. We may lose these customers due to the intensified competition. See “— Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is intensifying, and we may not be able to maintain our competitiveness.” We may also experience reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers, and any decline in the businesses of our customers could also reduce their purchases of our products. The loss of sales to any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We rely primarily on ports, highways and third party operated railway systems in the PRC and Australia to deliver our coal, any major disruption of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely primarily on highways and our own railway network, as well as third party operated railway system, to deliver coal to customers in China. We also deliver small volumes of coal through ports and canals. Coal resources and production in China are mainly located in northern and northwestern China, while coal consumption is primarily in eastern and southern China. As a result, coal suppliers must transport coal via third party operated railway systems from major supply areas to major demand areas. Although the PRC government has taken steps to upgrade and expand the national railway systems, its current capacity is not sufficient to meet the entire domestic coal transportation demand resulting from regional imbalances. Even though our domestic customers are mainly located in eastern China, where the railway system is more developed than other regions of China, our ability to deliver coal is still restricted by the transportation capacity. Pursuant to the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, the PRC government plans to construct several railways for coal transportation in cities in northern China and northwestern China, such as Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province and the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. However, as it will take a significant amount of time for the relevant PRC authorities to grant approvals and permits and to complete the construction of the railway, we anticipate that we will continue to face challenges with respect to access to railway transportation. In addition to railway transportation, we use major coal shipping ports along the coast of China to deliver coal to customers located along the coastal regions of China. However, we may not be able to continue securing sufficient railway or port capacity to deliver our coal and may experience material delivery delays or substantial increases in transportation costs as a result of insufficient railway capacity. In Australia, we rely substantially on third party operated railway networks to deliver coal to ports in New South Wales and Queensland, for onward shipping to our customers. We generally enter into transportation agreements with national and privately operated railway networks, rail haulage operators and ports to secure transportation capacity, generally for terms of five to ten years and generally on a “take or pay” basis. As the transportation capacity secured by these agreements is based on assumed production volume, we may not have sufficient capacity if our actual production volume exceeds our estimated production volume. Conversely, we may have excess transportation capacity (which, in the case of “take or pay” agreements, we will have to pay for even if unused) if our actual production volume is lower than our estimated production volume. In 2013, the sluggish global economy led to weak demand for coal in both the PRC and overseas markets. We expect that global economic conditions will remain uncertain and international coal markets will not improve in 2014, and as a result, we cannot assure you that we will fully use the transportation capacity secured on a “take or pay” basis. In addition, we may not be able to secure sufficient transportation capacity to deliver our coal in the future and may experience material delivery delays or substantial increases in transportation costs as a result of insufficient transportation capacity, which may also adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Competition in the PRC and the international coal industry is intensifying, and we may not be able to maintain our competitiveness. We face competition in all aspects of our business, including pricing, production capacity, coal quality and specifications, transportation capacity, cost structure and brand recognition. Our coal business competes in the domestic and international markets with other large domestic and international coal producers. The ongoing consolidation in the PRC and Australian coal industry has increased the level of competition we face in our core business. In 2013, China’s coal exports further increased and represented approximately 25% of the total coal export worldwide. Our competitors may have higher production capacities, stronger brand names and more financial, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We may not be able to maintain our competitiveness if changes or developments in the market weaken our existing competitive advantages. Efforts by our competitors to improve the quality of their coal may render obsolete or irrelevant any quality advantage we have over them. Our failure to compete effectively may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to meet our capital expenditure requirements or secure additional external financing in the future. Our business is capital intensive and will require substantial expenditures for, among other things, the construction of our key projects, machinery and equipment and operational capital expenditures. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our total capital expenditures in respect of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets were approximately RMB12,728.6 million, RMB9,927.0 million and RMB7,859.3 million, respectively. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, our total capital expenditures in respect of acquisition of subsidiaries were approximately RMB10,607.8 million, RMB10,882.2 million and RMB12,391.9 million, respectively. Our capital expenditures were made largely due to investment in our core coal businesses. We intend to use cash on hand, funds from operations and additional debt and equity financing to finance our capital expenditures going forward. However, we may not be able to obtain sufficient amounts of capital in a timely manner, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents In recent years, the size of our interest-bearing debt obligations has increased. In November and December 2013, we issued RMB denominated short term notes and non-public financing instruments in aggregate principal amounts of RMB6 billion. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately RMB55,375.0 million in bank borrowings, of which approximately RMB11,275.1 million is due within a year and approximately RMB44,100.0 million is due after one year. This level of debt could have significant consequences for our operations, including reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes as a result of our debt servicing obligations, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, our industry and the general economy and potentially limiting our ability to obtain, or increasing the cost of, any additional financing. In addition, our business plans may change from time to time due to changing circumstances, new opportunities or unforeseen contingencies. If we change our business plans, we may need to obtain additional external financing which may include bank borrowings or issuances of debt securities to meet our capital expenditure plans. If we raise additional funds through debt financing, our interest and debt repayment obligations will increase and we may be subject to additional covenants that could limit our ability to access cash flows from operations. We may not be able to raise sufficient financing to fund our future capital expenditures and service our debt obligations or at all. Failure to obtain sufficient financing could cause delays or abandonment of business development plans and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The coal reserve data in this annual report are only estimates, which may differ materially from actual reserve amounts. Our coal reserve data are only estimates, which may differ materially from actual reserve amounts. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating reserves, which require the consideration of a number of factors, assumptions and variables, many of which may be beyond our control and cannot be ascertained despite due investigation. Our reserve estimates may change substantially if new information becomes available. In addition, reserve data for certain of our PRC mines are estimated in accordance with Industry Guide 7 for proven and probable reserves and the JORC Code for reserves. Reserve data for our Australian mines are typically estimated in accordance with the JORC Code. As the mining standards and mining terminology of the JORC Code may differ substantially from Industry Guide 7, our reserve data may materially vary when we compile and present such data. As such, our actual results of operations may differ materially from our long-term business and operational projections, which are based on our coal reserve estimates. We may adjust our coal reserve estimates downward in the future, and in such event, our long-term production and the useful lives of our mines may be materially and adversely affected. Our business, results of operations and financial condition depend on in part our ability to continue developing or acquiring suitable coal reserves. Coal reserves in existing mines decline as coal is produced. Due to limitations in significantly increasing our production capacity at existing mines, our ability to expand our coal production capacity depends on our development of coal reserves, as well as our projects under construction. We may not be able to successfully develop new coal mines or expand our existing ones in accordance with our development plans, or at all. Moreover, we may not be able to continue to identify suitable acquisition targets or acquire these targets on competitive terms, at an acceptable cost or in a timely manner. The acquisition of new mines by PRC coal companies, either within China or overseas, and the procurement of related licenses and permits are subject to PRC government approvals. Delays or failures in securing the required PRC government approvals, licenses or permits, as well as any adverse change in government policies, may hinder our expansion plans, which may materially and adversely affect our future profitability and growth prospects. In connection with overseas acquisitions and expansion, we may encounter challenges due to our unfamiliarity with local laws and regulations, and may suffer foreign exchange losses on overseas investments or face political or regulatory obstacles to acquisitions. As a result of these challenges, our overseas expansion plans and investments may not be successful and may not achieve our anticipated results. Failure to acquire suitable targets on competitive terms, develop new coal mines or expand our existing coal mines could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness and growth prospects. We may experience difficulty integrating our acquisitions, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may from time to time expand our business through acquisitions of other coal mining companies, assets or other coal or mining-related businesses. We are devoting significant resources to the integration of our operations in order to achieve the anticipated synergies and benefits of the acquisitions and expansion. 13 Table of Contents Acquisitions and expansion involve uncertainties and a number of risks, including: • difficulty in integrating the assets, operations and technologies of the acquired companies or assets, including their employees, corporate cultures, managerial systems, processes and procedures and management information systems and services; • complying with the laws, regulations and policies applicable to the acquired businesses; • failure to achieve the objectives or benefits, or to generate sufficient revenue to recover the costs and expenses, resulting from the acquisition and integration of such companies or assets; • managing relationships with employees, customers and business partners during the course of integrating new businesses; • integrating other acquired employee groups with our employee groups and on maintaining productive employee relations; • attracting, training and motivating members of our management and workforce; • accessing our capital resources and internally generated funds to fund acquisitions, which may divert financial resources otherwise available for other purposes; • strengthening our operational, financial and management controls, particularly those of our newly acquired assets and subsidiaries, to maintain the reliability of our reporting processes; • difficulty in exercising control and supervision over the newly acquired operations, including failure to implement and communicate our safety management procedures resulting in additional safety hazards and risks; • potential ongoing financial obligations and unforeseen or hidden liabilities of the acquired companies or coal or potash-related businesses; and • failure to diversify our operations to include new products or successfully manage our operations in new markets, such as potash. In the event that we are unable to efficiently and effectively integrate newly acquired companies or coal or potash-related businesses into our Company, we may be unable to achieve the objectives or anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may have to write down the carrying value of the intangible assets associated with any acquired companies, which could adversely affect our earnings. We may be required to allocate additional funds for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection. Underground and surface mining may cause the land above mining sites to subside, or may otherwise adversely affect the environment. We may compensate inhabitants in areas surrounding our mining sites for their relocation expenses or for any property loss or damage as a result of our mining activities. PRC regulations require us to set aside provisions to cover the costs associated with land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection. An estimated provision is deducted as a cost and expense item in our income statement based on the amount of coal actually extracted. In addition, under the relevant Australian environmental regulations, rehabilitation costs are generally estimated in accordance with the expected costs of land rehabilitation. These land rehabilitation costs may exceed current estimates. Environmental legislation may also change, which could result in mandated modifications to mining operations that are costly. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we expensed approximately RMB1,513.1 million, RMB1,450.6 million and RMB1,390.6 million, respectively, of our provisions for land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental protection as determined by our directors based on estimations of various factors, including past occurrences of land subsidence. However, the provisions that we make are only estimates and may be adjusted to reflect the actual effects of our mining activities on the land above and surrounding our mining sites. Therefore, such estimates may not be accurate and land subsidence, restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs may substantially increase in the future. Moreover, governments may impose new fees or change the basis of calculating compensation and reclamation costs in respect of land subsidence, the occurrence of any of which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and industry may be affected by the development of alternative energy sources and climate change. We supply coal as fuel to, among others, the PRC thermal power generation industry and, as a result, are affected by the demand and growth of the PRC thermal power industry, which in turn is affected by the development of alternative energy sources, climate change and global environmental factors. If alternative combustion technologies develop and reduce the demand for coal in electricity generation, then demand for coal in the PRC thermal power generation industry may decrease, which would materially and adversely affect its demand for our products. 14 Table of Contents In addition, while the majority of global energy consumption is from conventional energy sources such as coal, alternative energy industries are rapidly developing and are gradually gaining widespread acceptance. Coal combustion generates significant greenhouse gas and other pollutants, and the effects of climate change resulting from global warming and increased pollution levels may provide incentives for governments to promote or invest in “green” energy technologies such as wind, solar, nuclear and biomass power plants, or to reduce their consumption of conventional energy sources such as coal. In 2013, the coal consumption represented approximately 65.7% of the total primary energy consumption, representing a 0.9% decrease as compared with 2012, while the consumption of non-fossil fuel energy represented 9.8% of the total primary energy consumption, as compared with 9.1% in 2012. The PRC government expects to further increase the consumption of non-fossil fuel energy to approximately 10.7% of the total primary energy consumption and decrease the coal consumption to less than 65%. In particular, pursuant to the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, the PRC government plans to continue to encourage the development of non-fossil fuel energy sources, such as wind power, solar power, biomass and geothermal energy. As such, alternative energy industries may rapidly develop and gradually gain mainstream acceptance in the PRC and the rest of the world. If alternative energy technologies continue to develop and prove suitable for wide commercial application in the PRC and overseas, demand for conventional energy sources such as coal could gradually be reduced, which would have a material adverse effect on the coal mining industry and, consequently, our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “— Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations.” Exploration of mineral properties and development of resources could involve significant uncertainties. We currently have exploration projects in Australia and Canada and we may have additional exploration projects in the PRC and other countries and regions in the future. The success of any mining exploration program depends on various factors including, among other things, whether mineral bodies can be located and whether the locations of mineral bodies are economically viable to mine. In addition, the development of these resources could face significant uncertainties. It can take several years and would require capital expenditures from the initial exploration phase until production commences, during which time market fundamentals, capital costs and economic feasibility may change, and the actual results may differ from those anticipated by third party independent technical studies. Furthermore, there are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and expansion of mining operations, including: (i) the availability and timing of necessary governmental permits, licenses and approvals; (ii) the timing and cost necessary to construct mining and processing facilities; (iii) the availability and cost of labor, utilities, and supplies; (iv) the accessibility of transportation and other infrastructure; and (v) the availability of funds to finance construction and production activities. As a result, we cannot assure you that any of our exploration activities will result in the discovery of valuable resources or reserves, or that reported resources can be converted into reserves in the future. We are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates. We face risks relating to fluctuations in exchange rates for RMB against other currencies, primarily the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. China has adopted a managed floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. In April 2012, the PRC government further enlarged the trading band. In this regard, the PBOC has allowed the Renminbi to rise or fall 1% against the U.S. dollar from the daily central parity rate, effective April 16, 2012, compared with its previous 0.5% limit. Subsequently, the PRC government further enlarged this trading band from 1% to 2% in March 2014, effective March 17, 2014. We are primarily affected by exchange rate fluctuations that arise from our export sales denominated in Australian dollars and U.S. dollars, which may affect the RMB values of such export sales. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations can result in exchange losses on our foreign currency deposits and loans and other indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, the exchange rate for the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar was US$1.00 = A$0.8929, compared with US$1.00 = A$1.0393 as of December 30, 2012. We recorded an exchange gain of RMB714.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and an exchange loss of RMB1,686.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, respectively. Exchange rate fluctuations can affect our cost of imported equipment and components. See “Item 3. — Key Information — A. Selective Financial Data — Exchange Rate Information.” On April 9, 2013, with the authorization of the PBOC, the China Foreign Exchange Trade System (CFETS) launched direct trading between Renminbi and Australian dollar on the inter-bank foreign exchange market, which is based on the direct exchange rate between the two currencies. We expect that this will help lower the currency conversion costs between the two currencies. However, we cannot assure you that the new policy will decrease our currency conversion costs. The conversion costs we realized in the previous trading scheme, which used U.S. dollars, may be lower, reflecting that the U.S. dollar is more liquid than the Australian dollar. We are exposed to interest rate risk caused by interest rate changes in relation to our bank borrowings and our other indebtedness, as well as our variable rate bank balances, term deposits and restricted cash held with banks. Our interest rate risk primarily arises from fluctuations in the PBOC benchmark interest rate in relation to our RMB-denominated borrowings, and fluctuations in the LIBOR rate in relation to our U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately US$5.569 million of borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars and RMB20.143 million of borrowings denominated in RMB. A substantial majority of our borrowings denominated in RMB are linked to the benchmark lending rate published by the PBOC, which is subject to fluctuations as the PRC government adjusts interest rates and related policies from time to time as a matter of national economic policy. 15 Table of Contents In addition, a substantial majority of our borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars are linked to floating LIBOR rates, the fluctuation of which are beyond our control. Our lending rates may increase in the future as a result of reasons beyond our control, and may result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. To manage uncertainty in our revenue stream and capital expenditures caused by exchange rate fluctuations, we have entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to sell or purchase specified amounts of foreign currencies at stipulated exchange rates. We have also entered into interest rate swap contracts with banks to hedge a portion of our variable interest rate borrowings. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our derivative assets in respect of our forward foreign exchange contracts was RMB13.1 million, compared with the fair value liability of our forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts of approximately RMB224.9 million. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures of Market Risks.” In addition, Yancoal Australia and Yancoal International Holdings have also taken foreign exchange hedging measures to their U.S. dollar denominated loans on the accounting basis to hedge the exchange losses of U.S. dollar denominated loan arising from the fluctuation of foreign exchange. Our hedging arrangements may not be effective and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates or interest rates. Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to resource taxes and we may not be able to pass on our increased costs relating to resource taxes to our customers. We currently pay a resource tax of RMB3.60, RMB3.20 and RMB3.20 per tonne of raw coal output in Shandong Province, Shanxi Province and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, respectively. The PRC government is considering changes to this tax whereby it would be based on pricing and not on volume. If such a change is adopted and the tax based on pricing is significantly higher than current tax, we costs will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Australian MRRT became effective as of July 1, 2012. The MRRT is a profits-based tax that is charged at an effective rate of 22.5% on the assessable profits (excess of annual mining revenue over annual mining expenditures with respect to mineral interests, less certain allowances) of, among others, coal mining enterprises. On October 24, 2013, the Australian government announced that it will seek to repeal the MRRT with effect from July 1, 2014. We cannot predict whether the MRRT will be successfully repealed. The MRRT has the potential to increase the overall tax liability of our Australian subsidiaries and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our Controlling Shareholder has significant influence over us. As of December 31, 2013, our Controlling Shareholder, the Yankuang Group, owned 56.52% of our outstanding shares and has significant influence over us. The Company entered into five continuing connected transaction agreements with Yankuang Group, namely a materials supply agreement, a supply of labor and services agreement, a pension fund management agreement, a coal products and materials supply agreement and an electricity and heat energy supply agreement in the ordinary course of business in June 2012 and a special labor & service supply agreement in March 2014. In addition, pursuant to approval granted at the twelfth meeting of the fifth session of the Board of Directors held on March 22, 2013, the Company entered into a financial services agreement with Yankuang Group. These related party transactions were reviewed and approved according to the procedures under relevant regulations and standards of the HKSE, SSE, NYSE and SEC. However, we may continue to enter into related party transactions with Yankuang Group and, as such, any material financial or operational developments experienced by the Yankuang Group that lead to the disruption of its operations or impairs its ability to perform its obligations under the agreements could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and future prospects. As our Controlling Shareholder, the Yankuang Group has the ability to exercise control over the Company’s business and affairs, including, but not limited to, decisions with respect to: • mergers or other business combinations; • the acquisition or disposition of assets; • the issuance of additional shares or other debt or equity securities; and • management of our Company. Accordingly, our Controlling Shareholder may vote, take other actions or make decisions that conflict with our interests or the interests of our other security holders. 16 Table of Contents Our coal operations are extensively regulated by the PRC and Australian government, and government regulations may limit our activities and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our coal operations in China are subject to extensive regulation by the PRC government. National governmental authorities, such as the NDRC, the MEP, the MLR, the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety (“SACMS”), the State Administration of Work Safety, the National Energy Administration and the State Bureau of Taxation, as well as corresponding provincial and local authorities and agencies, exercise extensive control over the mining and transportation (including rail, sea and river transport) of coal within China. Our operations in Australia are subject to similar laws and regulations of general application governing mining and processing, land tenure and use, environmental requirements, including site-specific environmental licenses, permits and statutory authorizations, workplace health and safety, trade and export, competition, access to infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation. These regulations may be implemented by various federal, state and local government departments and authorities including the Department of Industry and the Department of Environment. Regulatory oversight from these authorities and agencies may affect the following aspects of our operations, among others: • the use and granting of mining rights; • access to land for mining and mining-related purposes; • exploration licenses; • rehabilitation of mining sites and surrounding areas; • mining recovery rates; • pricing of our transportation services for coal in China; • taxes, levies and fees on our business; • return on investments; • application of capital investments; • pension fund contributions; • technological innovations; • preferential tax treatment; • environmental and safety standards; and • MRRT and carbon tax for Australian operations. As a result of the foregoing regulation, our ability to execute our business strategies or to carry out or expand our business operations may be restricted. We are still in the process of obtaining or renewing some of the regulatory approvals, permits and licenses required for our business operations, and may experience substantial delays in obtaining such regulatory approvals, permits and licenses. Our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in PRC or Australian regulations and policies that affect the coal industry. The adoption of new legislation or regulations or the new interpretation of existing legislation or regulations or changes in conditions attaching to approvals may materially and adversely affect our operations, our tax costs and cost structure or product demand. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may cause us to substantially change our existing operations, incur significant compliance costs and increase the risk of our future investment or prevent us from carrying out mining operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations in Australia and our overall business, results of operations and financial condition. See “— Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations” and “— Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to resource taxes and we may not be able to pass on our increased costs relating to resource taxes to our customers.” 17 Table of Contents Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. Our coal mining operations produce waste water, gas emissions and solid waste materials. In addition, surface mining operations also produce noise pollution. As a PRC and Australian coal producer, we are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations: • impose fees and limits on the discharge of waste substances to air, water and land, including carbon emissions; • require provisions for land reclamation and rehabilitation; • impose fines and other penalties for serious environmental offenses; • authorize the government to close any facility that fails to comply with environmental regulations and suspend any coal operation that causes excessive environmental damage; and • establish the conditions (including environmental requirements) for domestic mining operations. Due to the increasing awareness of environmental issues, the PRC government has tightened its enforcement of applicable laws and regulations and adopted more stringent environmental standards, such as the Working Plan for the Control of Discharge of Greenhouse Gases under the Twelfth Five-Year Plan, the Twelfth Five-Year Plan for Environmental Protection and the Twelfth Five-Year Plan for Energy-saving and Emission-reduction, pursuant to which China plans to continue to increase the proportion of non-fossil fuels used as an overall primary energy source to 11.4% by 2015 and reduce the proportion of coal used as an overall primary energy source. On September 10, 2013, the State Council issued the Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution (the “Action Plan”), pursuant to which the PRC government plans to reduce the coal consumption to less than 65% of total energy consumption by 2017. In addition, the PRC government plans to reduce the coal consumption growth in certain key areas such as Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei metropolitan region, Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta by increasing the consumption of electricity generated outside the region and using non-fossil fuel energy such as natural gas as alternative energy. On April 24, 2014, the Standing Committee of National People’s Congress passed the Amended Environmental Protection Law, pursuant to which, effective January 1, 2015, more responsibility has been imposed on local governments and unlimited fines will be imposed on polluters. Similarly, our Australian operations are subject to Australia’s stringent federal and state and territory environmental laws and regulations. In March 2012, the Australian government enacted a carbon pricing mechanism (or carbon tax) law, effective July 1, 2012, which imposed a charge on the amount of carbon dioxide emissions with an eventual transition to a “cap and trade” carbon emissions scheme. The carbon pricing mechanism imposes a charge based on tonnage of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) emissions, which is intended to provide disincentive for the use of fossil fuels such as coal. In addition, coal mines that exceed the threshold level of fugitive carbon emissions will be liable to surrender carbon units or pay a carbon charge. The current Australian government is currently seeking to repeal these laws. However, until the repeal legislation is passed, liable entities will need to comply with the existing laws. In addition, there have recently been cases in New South Wales and Queensland relating to the environmental effects of greenhouse gas emissions produced as a result of coal mining. Compliance with laws and involvement in litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. If this area of law develops further, more stringent regulations may be developed, particularly in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, which could increase the costs of using coal and reduce demand for coal as a fuel source, thus adversely affecting the sales volumes and prices of our coal. Moreover, Australian environmental approval processes require a technical environmental assessment to be prepared prior to granting approval, as well as public consultation. Community groups may lobby for more restrictive conditions to be imposed on approvals granted or for the approval to be declined, either of which may result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If efforts to increase energy efficiency, control greenhouse gas emissions and enhance environmental protection result in a decrease in coal consumption, our revenue may decrease and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, our budgeted amount for environmental regulatory compliance may not be sufficient, and we may need to allocate additional funds for this purpose. If we fail to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, we may be required to pay penalties or fines or take corrective actions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain all necessary approvals, permits and licenses. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations in China, we are required to renew approvals, permits and licenses with respect to our exploration activities, mining operations and environmental protection for our existing operational mines and obtain more approvals, permits and licenses for our development-stage or exploration projects such as Zhuanlongwan, Shilawusu, Yingpanhao and Wanfu. In addition, we are required to obtain or maintain land use rights certificates and building ownership certificates for property we own or lease properties from owners possess valid land use rights certificates or building ownership certificates. With respect to our operations in Australia and Canada, we are also required to obtain and renew from time to time a number of material regulatory approvals, permits and license. We are in the process of obtaining or renewing certain regulatory approvals, permits and licenses for our coal mines, such as the open-pit project at Moolarben Coal Mine and the Southeast open-pit project at Ashton Coal Mine. 18 Table of Contents If any of these or our other mining licenses, safety production licenses, environmental authorities or other certificates, approvals or permits are revoked, not renewed or not obtained, we could be required to cease operations of the affected mine or production facility. The loss of some or all of our mining licenses, coal production licenses, safety production licenses, environmental authorities or other certificates, approvals or permits may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel, including mine planners, or if we are unable to attract and retain skilled and qualified personnel. In the conduct of our operations, we rely substantially on the services of our key employees with professional skills, qualifications and experience, including mine planners. We may not be able to continue to employ our key personnel or attract and retain skilled and qualified personnel and the loss of any of these personnel could materially and adversely affect our operations. As our business expands, we believe our success will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain skilled and qualified personnel familiar with internationalized operation. Any difficulty in attracting, recruiting, training and retaining skilled and qualified personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may be affected by uncertain mining conditions and we may suffer losses resulting from mining safety incidents. Our coal mines and operating facilities may be damaged by water, gas, fire or cave-ins due to unstable geological structures, which may affect the safety of our workforce as well as our costs of producing coal, including without limitation, roof collapses, deterioration in the quality or variations in the thickness of coal seams, mine water discharge and flooding, inclement weather, explosions from methane gas or coal dust, ground falls and other mining hazards. For example, an underground incident occurred at Austar Coal Mine on April 15, 2014 and two employees died. Additionally, we are exposed to operational risks associated with industrial or engineering activities, such as maintenance problems or equipment failures. Although we conduct geological assessments on mining conditions and adapt our mining plans to the mining conditions at each mine, adverse mining conditions may endanger our workforce, increase our production costs, reduce our coal output or temporarily suspend our operations. Although we have implemented safety measures at our mining sites, trained our employees on occupational safety and maintain liability insurance for personal injuries as well as limited property damage for certain of our operations, safety incidents may occur. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events or conditions would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face price volatility and intense competition in our methanol operations. We entered the PRC methanol market and commenced production of coal-based methanol at Tianhao Chemicals and Yulin Nenghua in September 2008 and August 2009, respectively. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we generated revenue of RMB1,059.3 million, RMB1,118.0 million and RMB1,155.7 million from sales of methanol, respectively, which represented 2.3%, 1.9% and 2.0% of our total revenue for the same periods, respectively. However, we ceased production of coal-based methanol at Tianhao Chemicals in April 2012 due to the shortage of raw materials and are in the process of disposing of its methanol assets. The methanol business is a cyclical and competitive commodity industry with rapidly changing supply and demand fundamentals. In addition, there is currently significant overcapacity in the methanol industry, which is not expected to change, and the market demand of methanol is not expected to grow significantly in the short term. We expect our methanol prices to be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: • global and domestic methanol production; • global energy prices; • methanol plant utilization rates, capacity expansions and shutdowns; • global economic conditions; • compliance costs and environmental risks; and • competition from low-cost methanol producers. As of the end of 2013, we had a total annual methanol production capacity of 600,000 tonnes. In addition, we are currently constructing a 600,000-tonne methanol project in Ordos City, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, which we expect to become operational in the first half of 2014. We may not be able to optimize the utilization of our new facilities as planned. If our projections for the domestic methanol market prove incorrect or if we are unable to otherwise compete effectively, we may not recover the capital and resources we have invested in our methanol operations and may not realize the intended benefits of our expansion into this industry. In either event, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with our operations. Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions, ground or slope failures, changes in regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods, earthquakes and fires. Such occurrences could result in damage to mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage to our properties or properties of others, delays in development or mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. Customary to what we believe to be industry practice, we have maintained insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts we consider to be reasonable. However, our insurance may not cover all potential risks associated with our operations. We may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums and may not be able to pass on any increased costs relating to insurance to our customers. If such costs exceed the levels which we expect, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to protect our patents or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2013, we completed 70 technology improvement projects, among which, 22 projects have reached an international advanced level. In addition, we obtained 71 patents and received 18 technological awards in 2013, which have enhanced our coal mining and related business operations. Further, we own other intellectual property such as trademarks and know how. We believe our patents and other intellectual property rights are important to our success. Existing laws in China offer limited protection for our intellectual property rights. We rely upon a combination of patents, confidentiality policies and agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to detect any unauthorized use of, or take appropriate, adequate and timely actions to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Consequently, we may not be able to effectively prevent unauthorized use of our patents in other countries where such patents are not registered. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate, and monitoring and preventing unauthorized use is difficult. The protection of our intellectual property may be compromised as a result of (i) expiration of the protection period of our registered intellectual property rights, (ii) infringement by others of our intellectual property rights; and (iii) refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our pending patent applications. Furthermore, the application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our reputation may be negatively impacted and our business may be materially and adversely affected. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies that are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”) and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards in connection with their audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Because we have substantial operations within the Peoples’ Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor’s work related to our operations in China is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. This lack of PCAOB inspections of audit work performed in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating the audits performed by Grant Thornton and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors are deprived of the full benefits of PCAOB inspections of auditors. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of audit work performed in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures as compared to auditors in other jurisdictions that are subject to PCAOB inspections on all of their work. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms could result in our financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. The SEC has recently brought administrative proceedings against five accounting firms in China, alleging that they had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies under investigation by the SEC for potential accounting fraud. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. The sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The four firms which are subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC have recently appealed the initial administrative law decision to the SEC. We were not and are not subject to any SEC investigations, nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm has no relationship with any one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. However, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accounting firm will not be investigated or be subject to similar suspension in the future and we may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of such proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. On May 24, 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the Ministry of Finance of the PRC, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how these recent developments could affect the SEC’s final decision in the case against the five accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. If our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting from the NYSE or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. Risks Relating to the PRC Changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions as well as governmental policies could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. China’s economy differs from the economies of more developed countries in many respects, including the structure of the economy, level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of capital investment, control of foreign currency and allocation of resources. China’s economy has been in transition from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. For the past three decades, the PRC government authorities have implemented economic reform measures to emphasize market forces in economic development. The PRC government authorities implement various macroeconomic and other policies and measures from time to time, including contractionary and expansionary policies and measures at times of, or in anticipation of, changes in China’s economic conditions. Economic reform measures, however, may be adjusted, modified or applied inconsistently from industry to industry or across different regions of the country. We cannot predict whether changes in the PRC’s political, economic and social conditions, laws, regulations and policies will have any adverse effect on our current or future business, results of operations and financial condition. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves a degree of uncertainty. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws may be changed without being immediately published or may be amended with retroactive effect. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the coal mining industry in China, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. 21 Table of Contents Government control of currency conversion and future movements in exchange rates may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A portion of our Renminbi revenue may need to be converted into other currencies to meet our substantial requirements for foreign currencies, including debt service on foreign currency denominated debt, overseas acquisitions of mining properties, purchases of imported equipment, and payment of dividends declared in respect of shares held by international investors. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments with respect to foreign currency denominated obligations, are subject to the approval requirements of SAFE. In addition, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Australian dollar and certain other foreign currencies may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For further information, please see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures of Market Risks — Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk.” Our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to their shareholders is subject to, among other things, distributable earnings and restrictions contained in the articles of association of our subsidiaries, restrictions contained in the debt instruments and the requirements of PRC laws and regulations. For example, certain loan agreements of our subsidiaries contain covenants that limit their ability to pay dividends to us if there is a default in such loan agreements, or unless certain thresholds are satisfied or, in certain cases, limit their ability to pay dividends to us if their after-tax profits are nil or negative. PRC laws and regulations permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Such profits differ from profits determined in accordance with IFRS in certain significant respects, including the use of different bases of recognition of expenses. Our PRC subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserves that are not distributable as such dividends. Risks Relating to Australia Coal mining operations in Australia have inherent title risks associated with renewal and native title rights. Interests in tenements in Australia are governed by the respective State and Territory legislation and are evidenced by the granting of licenses or leases. Each license or lease is for a specific term and carries with it annual expenditure and reporting commitments, as well as other conditions requiring compliance. Consequently, we could lose title to or our interest in tenements if license or lease conditions are not met or if insufficient funds are available to meet expenditure commitments. It is also possible that, in relation to tenements which we have an interest in or will in the future acquire, there may be areas over which legitimate native title rights of Aboriginal Australians exist. If native title rights do exist, our ability to gain access to tenements (through obtaining consent of any relevant landowner), or to progress from the exploration phase to the development and mining phases of operations, may be adversely affected. The tenements in which we have an interest are subject to applications for renewal. There is a risk that these applications will not be granted or transfers not approved. All of the granted tenements in which we have or may earn an interest in will be subject to applications for renewal or grant (as the case may be). The renewal or grant of each tenement or license is usually at the discretion of the relevant government authority which will consider various factors, including our compliance with any conditions placed on an existing license, when making its decisions. It is possible that the government authority may reject our applications for renewal or grant, in which case, our operations in Australia may be adversely affected. Additionally, tenements are subject to a number of specific legislative conditions including payment of rent and meeting minimum annual expenditure and reporting commitments. Our inability to meet these conditions could affect the standing of a tenement or restrict its ability to be renewed. If a tenement is not renewed, we may suffer significant damage through loss of the opportunity to discover and/or develop any mineral resources on that tenement. Coal mining operations in Australia are subject to certain domestic operational risks. Our coal mining operations in Australia are subject to certain domestic operational risks, which include the following. Land access. The granting of mining tenure does not remove the need to enter into land access arrangements with third party land holders (where the land underlying the mining tenure is owned by a third party). In some cases, the underlying land may be owned by a competitor, pastoralist or other third parties. In addition, elements of the agricultural industry and other groups are opposed to the future development of land for mining or mining-related purposes. These groups are actively lobbying the relevant government entities or seeking public support in an effort to limit the amount of land available for mining, and to make access arrangements for mines more difficult. 22 Table of Contents Coordination agreements. Coal mining tenure in Australia is frequently granted over land over which coal seam gas tenure has or may be granted. Where coal mining and coal seam gas tenures overlap, it is necessary for the coal miner and coal seam gas producer to enter into a coordination agreement. Where overlapping tenure exists, mining operations cannot commence without a coordination agreement. In some cases, the interests of the coal miner and coal seam gas producer may not be aligned and accordingly, mining operations may be delayed or adversely affected. Environmental conditions and action groups. Before any mining tenure is granted in Australia, it is required that a comprehensive public environmental assessment on the impact of the proposed mining operations be undertaken. Such an assessment involves a public consultation process, which often involves encountering organized environmental or community groups that seek to restrict or block contemplated mining operations. Generally, where environmental approvals are granted, conditions are frequently imposed that materially affect mining operations. 