ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial performance, and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K, as the forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, and actual results and conditions could differ materially from the current expectations. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk, and before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risk factors as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”). In addition to other information set forth in this report, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating Access Worldwide and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risks could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant losses over the last two years and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have an accumulated deficit of $77.7 million through December 31, 2007, and net loss of $(5.0) million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We may never achieve operating profit. We will need to generate significantly higher revenues to sustain profitability, and we cannot be certain that we will realize sufficient revenues or operating profit to sustain our business. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to fund our operations on reasonable terms and this could hurt our business and negatively impact our stockholders. If adequate funds in the form of equity or debt are not available on reasonable terms or terms acceptable to us in the future, we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt or additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the securities may impose restrictions on our operations. We could be severely impacted by the loss of any of our largest clients. Our two largest clients, AT&T (which consists of AT&T, SBC and Bell South) and E*Trade Financial together accounted for approximately 81.8% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that these clients will continue to do business with us, and the loss of business from any one of these clients could have a material adverse effect on us. Our growth is dependent on various factors. Our business and future operations depend significantly on our ability to utilize our existing infrastructure and databases to perform services for new clients, as well as on our ability to develop and successfully implement new marketing methods or channels for new services for existing clients. Continued growth will also depend on a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • Maintain the high quality of services we provide to customers; • Recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel; • Train existing sales representatives or recruit new sales representatives to sell various categories of services; and; 7 Table of Contents • Open new service facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. In light of, among other things, our limited resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to execute our strategy effectively. Any growth that we would be able to attain would require the implementation of enhanced operational and financial systems and resources, as well as additional management of the resources needed for which we may not have available. Any such growth, if not managed effectively, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our future growth is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing. Our business and future operations depend largely on the industry trend toward outsourcing marketing services. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as companies may elect to perform such services internally. A significant change in the direction of this trend could have a material adverse effect on us. We are heavily dependent on the industries we serve, particularly the financial services and telecommunications industries. Our business and future operations are dependent to a great extent on the industries we serve. There can be no assurance that the financial services and telecommunications industries will grow or that it will continue to utilize outsourced marketing services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our business will benefit from any growth that these industries experience. These industries are heavily regulated by federal and state authorities. Existing regulation, or increased regulation in the future, could negatively impact the ability of the industries to operate or grow. Anything that inhibits the operations or growth of the financial services and telecommunications industry could have a material adverse effect on us. We rely on technology and could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain facilities with the needed equipment. We have invested significant funds in specialized telecommunications and computer technologies and equipment to provide customized solutions to meet our clients’ needs. In addition, we have invested significantly in sophisticated proprietary databases and software that enable us to market our clients’ products to targeted markets. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology and proprietary databases on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. We have leased equipment and have expended substantial time and resources to train our personnel in the operation of our existing equipment and to integrate the operations of our systems and facilities. In the event of substantial improvements in computer technologies and telecommunications equipment, we may be required to acquire such new technologies and equipment at significant cost and/or phase out a portion of our existing equipment. There can be no assurance that our technologies and equipment will not be rendered obsolete or our services rendered less marketable. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop and maintain the technology and systems necessary for our business. We are dependent on key personnel and may be affected by changes in senior management. Our success depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our key management personnel. Our failure to retain the services of all of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to support any growth that we are able to effectuate, we will be required to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel. In light of our limited resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our labor force and could be affected by potentially high turnover rates. Many aspects of our business are labor intensive, and based on the transient nature of our work force, there is a potential for high personnel turnover. Our operations typically require specially trained persons, such as those employees who market services and products in languages other than English. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. In addition, any growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified persons to meet the needs of our business. We could be affected by a business interruption. Our business is highly dependent on our computer, software and telephone equipment. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems or equipment, through casualty or operating malfunction, or a significant increase in the cost of telephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services, could have a material adverse affect on us. Our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses that we may incur in any such event. 8 Table of Contents Our stock price has declined substantially at times in the previous year and may become more volatile. The market price of Access Worldwide’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. During the 2007 fiscal year, our stock’s closing price fluctuated from a low of $0.53 to a high of $1.20. During that time period, the average trading volume was 2,623 shares per day, but the volatility of the price is often driven by trading volumes that can total less than 1,000 shares of common stock per day. With this level of volume, small trades can have a significant impact on the price. Additional factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of the stock include: • Future announcements concerning Access Worldwide or our competitors; • Results of technological innovations or service extensions; • Government regulations; and • Changes in general market conditions, particularly in the market for micro-cap stocks. Shortfalls in our revenues or earnings in any given period relative to any expectations in the securities markets could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of the common stock. We have experienced and may experience future quarter to quarter fluctuations in our results of operations. Quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the size and timing of client orders, changes in client budgets, material variations in the cost of telephone services, the demand for our services, the timing of the introduction of new services and service enhancements by us, the market acceptance of new services, competitive conditions in the industries we serve, our ability to effectuate any strategic transactions and general economic conditions. These factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in decreasing revenues and earnings, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We face risk due to our stock trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). Because our stock trades on the OTCBB and not on an exchange or the NASDAQ National Market or NASDAQ Capital Market, we have less ability to access the public equity and debt markets, should it be necessary or advisable to do so, than if our stock traded on one of those other more recognizable trading venues. Trading in our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our common shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our shares most likely will be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to entities with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income for the current and the past two years exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our stock. As long as the Company’s Common Stock is subject to the penny stock rules, the holders of the Company’s Common Stock may find it difficult to sell the Common Stock of the Company. Risks Related to Our Industry We may be adversely impacted by competition, industry consolidation and potential consumer saturation. The outsourced marketing services industry is very competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with other BPO and outsourced marketing services companies ranging in size from very small companies offering specialized applications or short-term projects to large independent companies. While many companies provide outsourced marketing services, we believe that there is no single company that dominates the entire industry. A significant number of our competitors and potential competitors have more extensive marketing capabilities, more extensive experience and greater financial resources than us. Consolidation among prospective clients also increases competition for buyers of our services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect us. We were impacted by the events of September 11, 2001 and may be impacted in the future by events of a similar nature, war and other international conflicts. Our businesses were impacted by the events of September 11, 2001 when we experienced, among other things, lost production days at our communication centers. To the extent that there are any further events of a nature similar to that of September 11, 2001, war and other international conflicts, or a prolonged downturn in the U.S. economy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulations and compliance with these regulations can be costly, time consuming and subject us to fines for non-compliance. Several industries in which our clients operate are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation, in particular the telecommunications and financial services industries. Generally, compliance with these regulations is the responsibility of our clients. However, we are exposed to a variety of enforcement or private actions for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with such regulations. Our communication centers must comply with a variety of regulations. With respect to our telecommunications services, we believe our operating procedures comply with the telephone solicitation rules of the FCC and FTC. With respect to our financial services, we believe our operating procedures comply with the regulations set forth by the OTC and GBLA. However, we cannot assure you that additional federal or state legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation, would not limit the activities of the Company or our clients in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. 9 Table of Contents In addition, the majority of states require outbound telemarketers to comply with various registration and documentation requirements. Failure to comply with the registration requirements could result in fines and call prohibitions which could have a material adverse effect on us. 