ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. 9 The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of common stock or securities convertible into common stock. Effective October 14, 2004, due to a NASDAQ staff determination to delist our common stock, our stock began trading in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market. Prior to the delisting, our common stock was quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The liquidity of our common stock is reduced by trading on the OTC market as compared to quotation on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The coverage of the Company by security analysts and media could be reduced, which could result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise prevail and could also result in increased spreads between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock. Because the trading price of our common stock is current below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is subject to certain restrictions and the market for our common stock could diminish. Because the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under that Rule, brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and the purchaser’s written consent prior to any transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share), including the delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock. Changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect our net income. Our borrowings and the availability of further borrowings are substantially affected by, among other things, changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates will affect our net income to the extent our operations and our fixed rate assets are funded by variable rate debt. We are also affected by foreign currency exchange rate changes, as a significant portion of our assets are invested in foreign currencies, mainly the euro. See Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for further analysis of the impact of interest and currency rate fluctuations on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not retain our key employees and management team our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. Our future performance will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our key executive, finance and accounting, and managerial personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain them. The loss of one or more of our senior management personnel may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. When we lose key employees, new employees must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model in addition to performing their regular duties and integration of these individuals often results in some disruption to our business. In addition, our ability to execute our business strategy will depend on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our key employees are not obligated to continue their employment with us and could leave at any time. As part of our strategy to attract and retain personnel, we offer stock option grants to certain employees. However, given the fluctuations of the market price of our common stock, potential employees may not perceive our equity incentives such as stock options as attractive, and current employees whose options are no longer priced below market value may choose not to remain employed by us. In addition, due to the intense competition 10 for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. We may be subject to litigation, which may be expensive and may be time consuming for our management team. Fatburger Holdings, Inc., et al. v. Keith A. Warlick/Warlick v. Fatburger, et al, Superior Court of California for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. SC 091436. On October 16, 2006, Fatburger Holdings, Inc., Fatburger Corporation and Fatburger North America, Inc. filed suit against Keith A. Warlick (“Warlick”) the former Chief Executive Officer of Fatburger Holdings, Inc. and Fatburger Corporation. Warlick’s employment with Fatburger was terminated on September 21, 2006 by resolution of the board of directors of Fatburger Holdings, Inc. The Fatburger companies initiated the lawsuit to recover damages from Warlick arising from wrongful acts and conduct during and after his employment, and are asserting claims for: breach of contract, breach of duty of loyalty, breach of fiduciary duty, conversion— embezzlement; fraud/commencement; intentional interference with contractual relations, and equitable indemnity. Warlick filed an answer to the lawsuit denying the allegations and included a Cross-complaint against Fatburger Holdings, Inc., Fatburger Corporation, Fatburger North America, Inc., Fog Cutter Capital Group, Inc., and Andrew Wiederhorn, for breach of contract, employment discrimination based on race and retaliation, wrongful termination and defamation—slander without any specification of damages. In further response Warlick initiated a second lawsuit against the Company, various Fatburger companies, and members of the Fatburger board of directors, which is set out below. The defendants to the Cross-complaint filed by Warlick dispute the allegations of the cross-complaint and intend to vigorously defend against the cross-complaint. Keith Warlick, et al. v. Fog Cutter Capital Group, et al., Superior Court of California for the County of Los Angeles, Case No. 58365915. On February 6, 2007, Warlick, his wife, and a limited liability company controlled by Warlick, each of whom is a minority shareholder of Fatburger Holdings, Inc., filed a complaint against various Fatburger entities, the Company, Andrew Wiederhorn, and members of the Fatburger board of directors. The complaint alleges fraud, negligent misrepresentation against Wiederhorn and the Company, and breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty against all the defendants, related to business transactions which the plaintiff’s allege were not in the best interests of Fatburger Holdings, Inc., or the plaintiff minority shareholders. The defendants dispute the allegations of the lawsuit and intend to vigorously defend against the claims. We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors to the extent permitted by applicable law in connection with this action, and have insurance for such individuals, to the extent of the limits of the applicable insurance policies and subject to potential reservations of rights. We are unable, however, to predict the ultimate outcome of the matter. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in defending against this action and, if we are unsuccessful, we may be subject to significant damages that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Even if we are successful, defending against this action has been, and will likely continue to be, expensive, time consuming and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. Changes to our liquidity may affect our net income and future business plans. The Company considers the sale of real estate and other investments to be a normal, recurring part of operations and expects these transactions to generate adequate cash flow to meet the Company’s liquidity needs for the next year. The Company has experienced losses from operations since its 2004 fiscal year. During this period, the Company’s operations and activities have become more focused on restaurant and other more typical commercial business activities and have been transitioning away from finance and real estate activities. The growth strategies for the restaurant and other commercial operations, as well as administrative cost burdens may threaten the Company’s liquidity position. 11 If our existing liquidity position were to prove insufficient, and we were unable to repay, renew or replace maturing indebtedness on terms reasonably satisfactory to us, we may be required to sell (potentially on short notice) a portion of our assets, and could incur losses as a result. Specific risks to our liquidity position include, but are not limited to, currency and interest rate risk, Fatburger’s debt covenants, Fatburger’s store expansion, and Centrisoft’s operating deficits. Risks related to Fatburger Fatburger debt covenant At December 31, 2006 and 2005, Fatburger was not in compliance with all obligations under the agreements evidencing its indebtedness, as defined in the applicable agreements. Fatburger failed to meet the prescribed fixed charge coverage ratio and the prescribed debt-coverage ratio at December 31, 2006. Due to Fatburger’s non-compliance, the lender has the right to demand repayment of the notes after serving notice. As such, on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, $4.1 million and $4.2 million of long-term debt has been classified as current at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, that would otherwise be classified as non-current. The lender has not demanded early repayment of the loans. However, if the lender exercises its right to demand repayment, our liquidity could be negatively affected. Fatburger may not be able to achieve its planned expansion. We believe the Fatburger segment of our business will constitute an increasingly important part of our business going forward. In addition to the risks associated generally with a restaurant business, such as changing consumer tastes and price pressure from competing businesses, our success depends in large part on our ability to expand Fatburger’s operations. We intend to grow Fatburger primarily through developing additional new franchisee and Company-owned restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including: · the availability of financing to Fatburger and to franchisees at acceptable rates and upon acceptable terms; · the availability of sufficient liquidity to fund continued expansion; · development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts; · delays in the completion of construction; · the inability to identify, or the unavailability of, suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; · developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; · incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event that a development project is abandoned prior to completion; · the inability to obtain all required governmental permits; · changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations; and · changes in general economic and business conditions. Although we intend to manage Fatburger’s operations and development to reduce such risks, we cannot assure you that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot assure you that we will complete the development and construction of the restaurants, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner or within budget, or that any restaurants will generate our expected returns on investment. Our inability to expand Fatburger in accordance with our 12 plans or to manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain financing sufficient to fund our planned expansion of Fatburger. We are implementing a nationwide and international expansion of franchise and company-owned locations of Fatburger, which will require significant liquidity. If Fatburger or its franchisees are unsuccessful in obtaining capital sufficient to fund this expansion, the timing of restaurant openings may be delayed and Fatburger’s results may be harmed. Fatburger’s success depends on its ability to locate a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites. One of the biggest challenges in meeting our growth objectives for Fatburger will be to secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some Fatburger restaurants and may experience delays in the future. There can be no assurance that sufficient suitable locations will be available for our planned expansion in any future period. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially adversely affect Fatburger’s performance and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, Fatburger is contemplating expanding into international markets in Asia, which may have additional challenges and requirements. New restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, if at all, for several months. We anticipate that new Fatburger restaurants will generally take several months to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, the need to hire and train a sufficient number of team members, operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter, pre-opening costs and other factors. Further, some, or all of the new restaurants may not attain anticipated operating results or results similar to those of Fatburger’s existing restaurants. In addition, restaurants opened in new markets may open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets and may have higher restaurant-level operating expense ratios than in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average annual company-owned restaurant sales, if at all, thereby affecting the profitability of these restaurants. Fatburger’s existing systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our growth plans. We face the risk that Fatburger’s existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information and accounting systems, management resources and human resources will be inadequate to support our planned expansion of company-owned and franchised restaurants. Expansion may strain Fatburger’s infrastructure and other resources, which could slow restaurant development or cause other problems. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on Fatburger’s infrastructure and other resources. Any failure by us to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve Fatburger’s expansion objectives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The fast casual restaurant segment is highly competitive, and that competition could lower revenues, margins and market share. The fast casual restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food, and there are many well-established competitors. Each of Fatburger’s restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned quick service restaurants, fast casual restaurants, and sandwich shops and other similar types of businesses. The trend toward a convergence in grocery, deli and 13 restaurant services may increase the number of Fatburger’s competitors. Such increased competition could have a material adverse affect on Fatburger’s financial condition and results of operations. Some of Fatburger’s competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. Certain of Fatburger’s competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance as to the success of any of Fatburger’s new products, initiatives or overall strategies, or assurance that competitive product offerings, pricings and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon Fatburger’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect Fatburger and its franchisees, and thereby our operating results. The fast casual restaurant industry is affected by changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Factors such as inflation, food costs, labor and benefit costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. The ability of Fatburger and its franchisees to finance new restaurant development, improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and the acquisition of restaurants from, and sale of restaurants to, franchisees is affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and other government policies impacting land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on Fatburger’s business and financial results. A substantial number of Fatburger employees are paid wage rates at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, Fatburger may need to increase not only the wages of its minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent Fatburger from offsetting the increased costs by price increases, profitability may decline. In addition, various other proposals that would require employers to provide health insurance for all of their employees are considered from time to time in Congress and various states. The imposition of any requirement that Fatburger provide health insurance to all employees on terms materially different from its existing programs could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of Fatburger. Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, can cause damage to Fatburger’s brand’s reputation and swiftly affect sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the fast casual restaurant segment and could, in the future, affect Fatburger as well. Fatburger’s brand reputation is an important asset to the business; as a result, anything that damages the brand’s reputation could immediately and severely hurt sales and, accordingly, revenues and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, Fatburger could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales on a local, regional or system-wide basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any Fatburger restaurants, could materially harm Fatburger’s business. 14 Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid products offered by Fatburger in favor of alternative foods. The foodservice industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Fatburger’s success depends, in part, upon the popularity of burgers and fast casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse affect on our future profitability. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. While consumption of hamburgers and related food items in the United States has grown over the past 20 years, the demand may not continue to grow or taste trends may change. Fatburger’s success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the food service industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. If prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions cause consumers to avoid these products offered by Fatburger restaurants in favor of alternative or healthier foods, demand for Fatburger’s products may be reduced and its business could be harmed. Fatburger is subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose Fatburger to litigation, damage Fatburger’s reputation and lower profits. Fatburger and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting their businesses. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), environmental (including litter), traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If Fatburger fails to comply with any of these laws, it may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and its reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to Fatburger’s reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among fast casual restaurants. As a result, Fatburger may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of its food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of Fatburger’s franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect Fatburger’s operations, particularly its relationship with its franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect Fatburger’s reported results of operations, and thus cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Fatburger’s earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of its franchisees, and Fatburger’s reputation may be harmed by actions taken by franchisees that are outside of its control. A portion of Fatburger’s earnings comes from royalties and other amounts paid by Fatburger’s franchisees. Franchisees are independent contractors, and their employees are not employees of Fatburger. Fatburger provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, its franchisees, but 15 the quality of their restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond Fatburger’s control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with Fatburger’s high standards and requirements and franchisees may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to an entire brand, thus damaging Fatburger’s reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Risks related to Centrisoft If Centrisoft is unable to compete successfully in the highly competitive market for network productivity and security products for any reason, its business will fail. Centrisoft is an early stage company that currently has a limited customer base. The market for enterprise network productivity and security products is intensely competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. An increase in competitive pressures in this market or Centrisoft’s failure to compete effectively may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins and a failure to obtain market share. Other competitors offering similar products have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Centrisoft does. In addition, larger competitors may bundle products competitive with Centrisoft’s with other products that they may sell to our potential customers. These customers may accept these bundled products rather than separately purchasing our products. Customer demand, competitive pressure and rapid changes in technology and industry standards could render Centrisoft’s products and services unmarketable or obsolete, and Centrisoft may be unable to introduce new or improved products and services, or update existing products or services, timely and successfully. To succeed, Centrisoft must continually change and improve its products, add new products and services, provide updates to products and services and replace existing products and services in response to changes in customer demand, competitive pressure, rapid technological developments and changes in operating systems, Internet access and communications, application and networking software, computer and communications hardware, programming tools, computer language technology and computer hacker techniques. Centrisoft may be unable to successfully and timely develop and introduce these new, improved or updated products and services or achieve and maintain market acceptance for new, improved or updated products and services we develop and introduce. The development and introduction of new, enterprise network and security products or providing updates to existing products, is a complex and uncertain process that requires great innovation, the ability to anticipate technological and market trends, the ability to deliver updates in a timely fashion and the ability to obtain required domestic and foreign governmental and regulatory certifications. Releasing new or improved products and services, or updates to products or services, prematurely may result in quality problems, and releasing them late may result in loss of customer confidence and market share. When Centrisoft introduces new or enhanced products and services, it may be unable to successfully manage the transition from its existing products and services to deliver enough new products and services to meet customer demand. Undetected product errors or defects could result in loss of revenues, delayed market acceptance and claims against Centrisoft. Centrisoft’s products and services may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first released. Despite extensive testing, some errors are discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors discovered after commercial release could result in loss of revenues or claims against Centrisoft or its resellers. 16 Centrisoft may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual failure of Centrisoft’s products and services. Because Centrisoft’s products provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information, Centrisoft may face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty relating to its products and services. Anyone who circumvents Centrisoft’s security measures could misappropriate the confidential information or other property of end-users using our products and services or interrupt their operations. If that happens, affected end-users or channel customers may sue Centrisoft. In addition, Centrisoft may face liability for breaches caused by faulty installation and implementation of its products by end-users or channel customers. Although Centrisoft attempts to reduce the risk of losses from claims through contractual warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, these provisions may be unenforceable. Some courts, for example, have found contractual limitations of liability in standard software licenses to be unenforceable because the licensee does not sign the license. Defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and could divert management attention. Although Centrisoft currently maintains business liability insurance, this coverage may be inadequate or may be unavailable in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Centrisoft may be unable to adequately protect its proprietary rights, which may limit its ability to compete effectively. Despite Centrisoft’s efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may misappropriate or infringe on its patents, trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar proprietary rights. Centrisoft may, however, be unsuccessful in protecting its trade secrets or, even if successful, any required litigation may be costly and time consuming, which could harm our business. If Centrisoft fails to obtain and maintain patent protection for its technology, we may be unable to compete effectively. In addition, Centrisoft relies on unpatented proprietary technology. Because this proprietary technology does not have patent protection, Centrisoft may be unable to meaningfully protect this technology from unauthorized use or misappropriation by a third party. Centrisoft’s competitors may independently develop similar or superior technologies or duplicate any unpatented technologies that we have developed which could significantly reduce the value of its proprietary technology or threaten its market position. Risks related to our real estate holdings Our performance and value are subject to risks associated with our real estate assets and with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently the value of our stock, are subject to the risk that if our real estate properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow will be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the income generated by our real estate properties: · downturns in the international, national, regional and local economic conditions (particularly increases in unemployment); · competition from other office and commercial buildings; · local real estate market conditions, particularly in Barcelona, Spain, such as oversupply or reduction in demand for commercial or residential space; · changes in interest rates and availability of attractive financing; 17 · vacancies, changes in market rental rates and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-let space; · increased operating costs, including insurance expense, utilities, real estate taxes, state and local taxes and heightened security costs; · civil disturbances, natural disasters, or terrorist acts or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; · significant expenditures associated with each investment, such as debt service payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs which are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property; · declines in the financial condition of our tenants and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; and · decreases in the underlying value of our real estate. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse against the prior owners or other third parties, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: · liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; · claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; · liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and · claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. Because we rely on our ability to sell assets to generate liquidity, fluctuations in the real estate market could negatively affect our cash flow. We currently generate a substantial portion of our liquidity from sales of assets, including real estate assets. If we are unable to sell assets at effective prices, it may affect our liquidity and profitability. We may have difficulty selling our properties, which may limit our flexibility. Our real estate properties could be difficult to sell. This may limit our ability to adjust our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, tax laws limit our ability to sell properties and this may affect our ability to sell properties without adversely affecting our performance or returns. These restrictions reduce our ability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 