Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to our business operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Relating To Our Business Prices of commodities we own are volatile, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Although we seek to turn over our inventory of raw or processed scrap metals as rapidly as markets dictate, we are exposed to commodity price risk during the period that we have title to products that are held in inventory for processing and/or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap metals, have been extremely volatile and we expect this volatility to continue. Such volatility can be due to numerous factors beyond our control, including: • general domestic and global economic conditions, including metal market conditions; • competition; • the financial condition of our major suppliers and consumers; • the availability of imported finished metal products; • international demand for U.S. scrap; • the availability and relative pricing of scrap metal substitutes; • import duties and tariffs; • currency exchange rates; • geopolitical unrest • demand for exchange traded funds; and • domestic and international labor costs. Although we have historically attempted to raise the selling prices of our scrap recycling and lead fabricating products in response to an increasing price environment, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment, we may not have the ability to recoup the cost of raw materials used in fabrication and raw scrap we process and sell to our consumers. 11 Table of Contents The volatile nature of metal commodity prices makes it difficult for us to predict future revenue trends as shifting international and domestic demand can significantly impact the prices of our products, supply and demand for our products and affect anticipated future results. Most of our consumers purchase processed non-ferrous scrap according to a negotiated spot sales contract that establishes the price and quantity purchased for the month. We use forward sales contracts with PGM substrate processors to hedge against extremely volatile PGM metal prices. In the event our hedging strategy is not successful, our operating margins and operating results can be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices and variability of yields, and the resulting unpredictability of revenues and costs, can adversely and materially affect our operating margins and other results of operations. The profitability of all of our scrap metal recycling operations depends, in part, on the availability of an adequate source of supply. We depend on scrap for our operations and acquire our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell scrap metals to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold scrap waiting for higher prices. If an adequate supply of scrap metal is not available to us, we would be unable to process metals at desired volumes and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The cyclicality of our industry could negatively affect our sales volume and revenues. The operating results of the metal recycling industry in general, and our operations specifically, are highly cyclical in nature. They tend to reflect and be amplified by general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally. Historically, in periods of national recession or periods of slowing economic growth, the operating results of metal recycling companies have been materially and adversely affected. For example, during recessions or periods of slowing economic growth, the automobile and the construction industries typically experience major cutbacks in production, resulting in decreased demand for steel, copper and aluminum. Cutbacks in the automotive and construction industries can cause significant fluctuations in supply, demand and pricing for our products, which can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to withstand significant economic downturns that we may encounter in the future will depend in part on our levels of debt and equity capital, operating flexibility and access to liquidity. The volatility of the import and export markets may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by increases in steel imports into the United States which will generally have an adverse impact on domestic steel production and a corresponding adverse impact on the demand for scrap metals domestically. Our operating results could also be negatively affected by strengthening or weakening in the US dollar. US dollar weakness provides some support to prices of commodities that are denominated in US dollars but with large non-US consumption and cost bases. For example, appreciation in the Chinese and Indian currencies have increased marginal costs of aluminum and iron ore production, thereby increasing the underlying cost basis for prices. Export markets, including Asia and the Middle East and in particular China and Turkey, are important to the scrap metal recycling industry. Weakness in economic conditions in these export markets and in particular slowing growth in China as well as economic weakness and political uncertainty in Turkey or their consumers, could negatively affect us further. The volatility of lead pricing may impact our ability to sell product. Our lead fabricating facilities may be adversely impacted by increases or decreases in lead pricing. Changing lead markets may impact our ability to secure the volume of raw materials needed at pricing considered sustainable before driving consumers to substitute products. Disruptions in domestic or foreign lead refining capacity could impact our ability to secure enough raw materials to meet production requirements. Increases in the cost of lead could reduce the demand for lead products by making nonlead-bearing alternatives more cost attractive. Economic weakness in the U.S. and abroad may negatively impact demand for our products. 12 Table of Contents An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our operating results and net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of supplier lists, trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by our management at least annually for impairment. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include changes in the industries in which we operate, as well as competition, a significant product liability or environmental claim, or other factors leading to reduction in forecasted sales or profitability. At September 30, 2013, our actual year-to-date operating results for most reporting units in our Scrap Metal Recycling segment differed significantly enough from our forecast to determine that impairment to the carrying value of their goodwill was probable. We had also experienced an extended period in which the carrying value of our Shareholder’s equity materially exceeded our market capitalization value. Based on these factors, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test at September 30, 2013 for all of our reporting units. As a result of the impairment tests performed, we were required to record a goodwill impairment charge of $32.3 million to several reporting units in our Scrap Metal Recycling segment and an impairment charge of $1.1 million to a trade name that we no longer expect to use. Going forward, if, upon performance of an impairment assessment, it is determined that such assets are impaired, additional impairment charges may be recognized by reducing the carrying amount and recording a charge against earnings. Should current economic and equity market conditions deteriorate, it is possible that we could have additional material impairment charges against earnings in a future period. Our significant indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funds and may increase our vulnerability to economic or business downturns. As of December 31, 2013, the total principal amount of our debt outstanding was $127.7 million, before debt discount of $297,000 related to our 7% Convertible Notes. Subject to certain restrictions, exceptions and financial tests set forth in certain of our debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. We anticipate our debt service payment obligations during 2014, will be approximately $14.5 million, comprised of principal of $6.3 million and interest of $8.2 million. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $83.9 million of our debt accrued interest at variable rates. We may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in general interest rate levels. Based on actual amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2013, if the interest rate on our variable rate debt were to increase by 1%, our annual debt service payment obligations would increase by $248,000 due to interest rate floors on our variable rate debt. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important negative consequences to the holders of our securities, including the following: • we are exposed to general domestic and global economic conditions, including metal market conditions; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to pay debt service and will not be available to fund future operations; • we have increased vulnerability to adverse general economic and metal recycling industry conditions; and • we may be vulnerable to higher interest rates because interest expense on borrowings under our loan agreement is based on margins over a variable base rate. We continue to rely on borrowings under our senior credit facility and from other lenders to acquire other businesses and to operate our business. In November 2013, we entered into a new combined revolving and term credit facility to pay amounts outstanding under the Company’s prior credit agreement and to repurchase $36.7 million of our outstanding Convertible Notes. At December 31, 2013, the term portion of the new credit agreement had $20.0 million in availability remaining which could be used to redeem $23.5 million in Convertible Notes whose holders have the right to put their Convertible Notes back to us, at par, on June 30, 2014. As a result, we may have insufficient availability under our existing credit facility or the ability to borrow from other lenders to pay off maturing debt obligations or acquire additional businesses and to operate our business. 13 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and failure to comply with the terms of such agreements could result in a default that could have material adverse consequences for us. Under our senior credit agreement, we are required to satisfy specified financial covenants, including a maximum leverage ratio whereby our total debt may not exceed a certain multiple of our trailing twelve months earnings before interest tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and a limit on our maximum capital expenditures. We have in the past been in default under certain of our prior loan facilities, but we obtained retroactive covenant modifications or had noncompliance waived in each case. In addition, we have in the past adjusted covenants contained in our prior loan facilities to protect against noncompliance and prepaid some of our outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these specified financial covenants may be affected by general economic and industry conditions, as well as market fluctuations in metal prices and other events beyond our control. We do not know if we will be able to satisfy all such covenants in the future. Our breach of any of the covenants contained in agreements governing our indebtedness, including our senior credit agreement, could result in a default under such agreements. In the event of a default, a lender could elect not to make additional loans to us, could require us to repay some of our outstanding debt prior to maturity, and/or to declare all amounts borrowed by us, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In the event that this occurs, we would likely be unable to repay all such accelerated indebtedness. A portion of our debt is subject to an optional repurchase right exercisable by the holders on June 30, 2014 which, if exercised, would require us to redeem such debt for which we may not have sufficient liquidity. On November 21, 2013, we entered into a new six-year senior credit facility with revolving and term loan components to replace our former revolving credit facility, to repurchase a significant portion of our outstanding Convertible Notes and to provide liquidity to retire any remaining Convertible Notes. The outstanding Convertible Notes are subject to an optional repurchase right exercisable by the holders that becomes effective on June 30, 2014 which would require us to redeem the Convertible Notes at par. At December 31, 2013, the outstanding balance of the notes was $23.5 million and availability under the term portion of the current credit agreement was $20.0 million, subject to covenant compliance. The Company believes it will be able to redeem the balance of the Convertible Notes prior to or at the time the Note holders exercise their repurchase right with cash on hand, cash generated from operations, availability under existing credit facilities, additional financing alternatives, the potential sale of non-core assets, or if necessary, accessing capital markets with a new debt or equity offering. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to secure the financing to redeem the Notes. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to secure our borrowings and are subject to covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business. Any indebtedness that we incur under our existing senior credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets. If we default under the indebtedness secured by our assets, those assets would be available to the secured creditors to satisfy our obligations to the secured creditors. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future operating performance is subject to market conditions and business factors that are beyond our control. We might not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. The terms of our debt, including the security interests granted to our lenders, might not allow for these alternative measures, and such measures might not satisfy our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or restructure or refinance our debt to meet our debt obligations, we cannot assure you as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly such transaction could be completed. 14 Table of Contents We may seek to make acquisitions that may prove unsuccessful or strain or divert our resources. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Acquisitions present risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our everyday business activities; • the contingent and latent risks associated with the past operations of, and other unanticipated problems arising in, the acquired business, including managing such acquired businesses either through our senior management team or the management of such acquired business; and • the need to expand management, administration and operational systems. If we make such acquisitions we cannot predict whether: • we will be able to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of any new businesses into our business; • we will realize any anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions; • economic conditions could deteriorate after closing; or • there will be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, including potential costs associated with environmental liabilities undiscovered at the time of acquisition. In addition, future acquisitions by us may result in: • potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities; • the incurrence of additional debt; • restructuring charges; and • the recognition of significant charges for depreciation and amortization related to intangible assets. We may in the future make investments in or acquire companies or commence operations in businesses and industries that are outside of those areas that we have operated historically. We cannot assure that we will be successful in managing any new business. If these investments, acquisitions or arrangements are not successful, our earnings could be materially adversely affected by increased expenses and decreased revenues. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Competitive pressures from existing and new companies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The markets for scrap metal are highly competitive, both in the purchase of raw scrap and the sale of processed scrap. We compete to purchase raw scrap with numerous independent recyclers, large public scrap processors and smaller scrap companies. Successful procurement of materials is determined primarily by the price and promptness of payment for the raw scrap and the proximity of the processing facility to the source of the unprocessed scrap. We occasionally face competition for purchases of unprocessed scrap from producers of steel products, such as integrated steel mills and mini-mills, which have vertically integrated their operations by entering the scrap metal recycling business. Many of these producers have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. Our operating costs could increase as a result of competition with these other companies for raw scrap. We compete in a global market with regard to the sale of processed scrap. Competition for sales of processed scrap is based primarily on the price, quantity and quality of the scrap metals, as well as the level of service provided in terms of consistency of quality, reliability and timing of delivery. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key factor, our ability to attract and retain consumers could be materially and adversely affected. Our scrap metal processing operations also face 15 Table of Contents competition from substitutes for prepared ferrous scrap, such as pre-reduced iron pellets, hot briquetted iron, pig iron, iron carbide and other forms of processed iron. The availability of substitutes for ferrous scrap could result in a decreased demand for processed ferrous scrap, which could result in lower prices for such products. Our lead fabricating operations compete against two fabricators of similar products in the Southwest who distribute nationally, and several smaller regional producers of competing products across much of our product line. To a lesser extent, we also compete against products imported from Central and South America, Canada, Europe and Asia. To the extent that one or more of our competitors becomes more successful with respect to any key factor, or new competition enters our markets, our ability to attract and retain consumers could be materially and adversely affected. Unanticipated disruptions in our operations or slowdowns by our shipping companies could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our consumers. Our ability to process and fulfill orders and manage inventory depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our facilities. In addition, our products are usually transported to consumers by third-party truck, rail carriers and barge services. As a result, we rely on the timely and uninterrupted performance of third party shipping companies and dock workers. Any interruption in our operations or interruption or delay in transportation services could cause orders to be canceled, lost or delivered late, goods to be returned or receipt of goods to be refused or result in higher transportation costs. As a result, our relationships with our consumers and our revenues and results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations consume large amounts of electricity and natural gas, and shortages, supply disruptions or substantial increases in the price of electricity and natural gas could adversely affect our business. The successful operation of our facilities depends on an uninterrupted supply of electricity. Accordingly, we are at risk in the event of an energy disruption. The electricity industry has been adversely affected by shortages in regions outside of the locations of our facilities. Prolonged black-outs or brown-outs or disruptions caused by natural disasters such as hurricanes or flooding would substantially disrupt our production. Any such disruptions could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Electricity prices are volatile and are expect to remain so in the near future. Additional prolonged substantial increases would have an adverse effect on the costs of operating our facilities and would negatively impact our gross margins unless we were able to fully pass through the additional expense to our consumers. We depend on an uninterrupted supply of natural gas in our de-ox and lead fabricating facilities. Supply for natural gas depends primarily upon the number of producing natural gas wells, wells being drilled, completed and re-worked, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells and access to dependable methods of delivery. The level of these activities is primarily dependent on current and anticipated natural gas prices. Many factors, such as the supply and demand for natural gas, the impact of severe weather, general economic conditions, political instability or armed conflict in worldwide natural gas producing regions and global weather patterns including natural disasters such as hurricanes affect these prices. Natural gas prices in the past have been very volatile. Additional prolonged substantial increases would have an adverse effect on the costs of operating our facilities and would negatively impact our gross margins unless we were able to fully pass through the additional expense to our consumers. We purchase most of our electricity and natural gas requirements in local markets for relatively short periods of time. As a result, fluctuations in energy prices can have a material adverse effect on the costs of operating our facilities and our operating margins and cash flow. The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of our managers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our operations depend heavily on the skills and efforts of our senior management team, including Carlos E. Agüero, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael J. Drury, our Executive Vice-President 16 Table of Contents and Chief Operating Officer and the other employees who constitute our executive management team. In addition, we rely substantially on the experience of the management of our subsidiaries with regard to day-to-day operations. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to retain the services of any of these individuals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have to hire qualified personnel. The loss of any member of our senior management team or a significant number of managers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. The concentration of our consumers and our exposure to credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Sales to our ten largest consumers represented approximately 41.0% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 35.2% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. Sales to our largest consumer represented approximately 5.8% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 6.3% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. In connection with the sale of our products, we generally do not require collateral as security for consumer receivables and do not maintain credit insurance. We have significant balances owing from some consumers that operate in cyclical industries and under leveraged conditions that may impair the collectability of those receivables. The loss of a significant consumer or our inability to collect accounts receivable would negatively impact our revenues and profitability and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant increase in the use of scrap metal alternatives by current consumers of processed scrap metals could reduce demand for our products. During periods of high demand for scrap metals, tightness can develop in the supply and demand balance for ferrous scrap. The relative scarcity of ferrous scrap, particularly the “cleaner” grades, and its high price during such periods have created opportunities for producers of alternatives to scrap metals, such as pig iron and direct reduced iron pellets, to offer their products to our consumers. Although these alternatives have not been a major factor in the industry to date, the use of alternatives to scrap metals may proliferate in the future if the prices for scrap metals rise or if the levels of available unprepared ferrous scrap decrease. As a result, we may be subject to increased competition which could adversely affect our revenues and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In order to maintain the supply line of catalytic converters for our PGM recycling operations, we make unsecured advances to vendors. A significant downturn in the price of platinum group metals could result in the loss of a significant portion of those unsecured advances. Vendor advances consist principally of unsecured advances to suppliers for purchase of catalytic converters for recycling. These advances are necessary in order to maintain the supply line of catalytic converters. Management works diligently to monitor such advances. As of December 31, 2013, advances to converter vendors totaled $323,000, and were reduced by an allowance of $49,000 for uncollectible advances. Net advances of $274,000 were reported in prepaid and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. A significant downturn in the price of platinum group metals could result in the loss of a significant portion of these advances and have a negative impact to our operating results. Our operations are subject to stringent regulations, particularly under applicable environmental laws, which could subject us to increased costs. The nature of our business and previous operations by others at facilities owned or operated by us make us subject to significant government regulation, including stringent environmental laws and regulations. Among other things, these laws and regulations impose comprehensive statutory and regulatory requirements concerning, among other matters, the treatment, acceptance, identification, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of industrial by-products, hazardous and solid waste materials, waste water, storm water effluent, air emissions, soil 17 Table of Contents contamination, surface and ground water pollution, employee health and safety, operating permit standards, monitoring and spill containment requirements, zoning, and land use, among others. Various laws and regulations set prohibitions or limits on the release of contaminants into the environment. Such laws and regulations also require permits to be obtained and manifests to be completed and delivered in connection with the operations of our businesses, and in connection with any shipment of prescribed materials so that the movement and disposal of such material can be traced and the persons responsible for any mishandling of such material can be identified. This regulatory framework imposes significant actual, day-to-day compliance burdens, costs and risks on us. Violation of such laws and regulations may and do give rise to significant liability, including fines, damages, fees and expenses, and closure of a site. Generally, the governmental authorities are empowered to act to clean up and remediate releases and environmental damage and to charge the costs of such cleanup to one or more of the owners of the property, the person responsible for the release, the generator of the contaminant and certain other parties or to direct the responsible party to take such action. These authorities may also impose a penalty or other liens to secure the parties’ reimbursement obligations. Environmental legislation, regulation and enforcement continue to evolve and it is possible that we will be subject to even more stringent environmental standards in the future. For these reasons, future capital expenditures for environmental control facilities cannot be predicted with accuracy; however, as environmental control standards become more stringent, our compliance expenditures could increase substantially. Due to the nature of our lead fabricating and scrap metal recycling businesses, it is likely that inquiries or claims based upon environmental laws may be made in the future by governmental bodies or individuals against us and any other scrap metal recycling entities that we may acquire. The location of some of our facilities in urban areas may increase the risk of scrutiny and claims. We cannot predict whether any such future inquiries or claims will in fact arise or the outcome of such matters. Additionally, it is not possible to predict the amounts of all capital expenditures or of any increases in operating costs or other expenses that we may incur to comply with applicable environmental requirements, or whether these costs can be passed on to consumers through product price increases. Moreover, environmental legislation has been enacted, and may in the future be enacted, to create liability for past actions that were lawful at the time taken but that have been found to affect the environment and to create public rights of action for environmental conditions and activities. As is the case with lead fabricating, scrap metal and PGM and Minor Metals recycling businesses in general, if damage to persons or the environment has been caused, or is in the future caused, by hazardous materials activities of us or our predecessors, we may be fined and held liable for such damage. In addition, we may be required to remedy such conditions and/or change procedures. Thus, liabilities, expenditures, fines and penalties associated with environmental laws and regulations might be imposed on us in the future, and such liabilities, expenditures, fines or penalties might have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to potential liability and may also be required from time to time to clean up or take certain remedial action with regard to sites currently or formerly used in connection with our operations. Furthermore, we may be required to pay for all or a portion of the costs to clean up or remediate sites we never owned or on which we never operated if we are found to have arranged for transportation, treatment or disposal of pollutants or hazardous or toxic substances on or to such sites. We are also subject to potential liability for environmental damage that our assets or operations may cause nearby landowners, particularly as a result of any contamination of drinking water sources or soil, including damage resulting from conditions existing prior to the acquisition of such assets or operations. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, and could materially adversely affect the marketability and price of our stock. Certain of our sites are contaminated, and we are responsible for certain off-site contamination as well. Such sites may require investigation, monitoring and remediation. The existence of such contamination may result in federal, local and/or private enforcement or cost recovery actions against us, possibly resulting in disruption of our operations, and/or substantial fines, penalties, damages, costs and expenses being imposed against us. We 18 Table of Contents expect to require future cash outlays as we incur costs relating to the remediation of environmental liabilities and post-remediation compliance. These costs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Environmental impairment liability insurance is prohibitively expensive and limited in the scope of its coverage. Our general liability insurance policies in most cases do not cover environmental damage. If we incur significant liability for environmental damage not covered by insurance; or for which we have not adequately reserved; or for which we are not adequately indemnified by third parties; our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In the past we have upon occasion been found not to be in compliance with certain environmental laws and regulations, and have incurred fines associated with such violations which have not been material in amount. We may in the future incur additional fines associated with similar violations. We have also paid some or all of the costs of certain remediation actions at certain sites. On occasion these costs have been material. Material fines, penalties, damages and expenses resulting from additional compliance issues and liabilities might be imposed on us in the future. Due diligence reviews in connection with our acquisitions to date and environmental assessments of our operating sites conducted by independent environmental consulting firms have revealed that some soil, surface water and/or groundwater contamination, including various metals, arsenic, petrochemical byproducts, waste oils and volatile organic compounds, is present at certain of our operating sites. Based on our review of these reports, we believe that it is possible that migratory contamination at varying levels may exist at some of our sites, and we anticipate that some of our sites could require investigation, monitoring and remediation in the future. Moreover, the costs of such remediation could be material. The existence of contamination at some of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to sell these properties if we choose to sell such properties, and may generally require us to incur significant costs to take advantage of any future selling opportunities. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable statutes and regulations governing the protection of human health and the environment, including employee health and safety. We can give no assurance, however, that we will continue to be in compliance or to avoid material fines, penalties and expenses associated with compliance issues in the future. If more of our employees become members of unions, our operations could be subject to interruptions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 8% of our workforce was covered by collective bargaining agreements at two of our operating facilities. Forty-three employees located at our Lead Fabricating facility in Granite City, Illinois were represented by the United Steelworkers of America and twenty of our employees located at our scrap processing facility in Akron, Ohio were represented by the Chicago and Midwest Regional Joint Board. Our current three-year agreement with the United Steelworkers of America expires on March 15, 2014 and our current three-year agreement with the Regional Joint Board expires on June 25, 2014. We are currently negotiating renewals of both agreements. Although we are not aware at this time of any current attempts to organize other employees of ours, our employees may organize in the future. If we are unable to successfully negotiate the terms of renewals of the contracts governing our employees at this time or in the future or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations present significant risk of injury or death. We may be subject to claims that are not covered by or exceed our insurance. Because of the heavy industrial activities conducted at our facilities, there exists a risk of injury or death to our employees or other visitors, notwithstanding the safety precautions we take. Our operations are subject to regulation by federal, state and local agencies responsible for employee health and safety, including the 19 Table of Contents Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), which has from time to time levied fines against us for certain isolated incidents. While we have in place policies to minimize such risks, we may nevertheless be unable to avoid material liabilities for any employee death or injury that may occur in the future. These types of incidents may not be covered by or may exceed our insurance coverage and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal and affected by weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Both of our business segments generally experience seasonal slowness in the months of July and December, as consumers tend to reduce production and inventories. In addition, periodic maintenance shutdowns or labor disruptions at our larger consumers may have an adverse impact on our operations. Our operations can also be adversely affected by periods of inclement weather, particularly during the winter and during the hurricane season in the Southeast region of the United States, which can adversely impact industrial and construction activity as well as transportation and logistics. We face certain product liability and warranty claims that may harm our business. Our operations expose us to product liability claims if our products cause injury or are otherwise found to be defective. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may be time consuming and costly to defend and may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation and loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. In addition, if we fail to meet contractual requirements for a product, we may be subject to product warranty costs and claims. These costs could both have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and harm our reputation. We intend to develop “greenfield” projects which are subject to risks commonly associated with such projects. We intend to develop “greenfield” projects, either on our own or through joint ventures. There are risks commonly associated with the start-up of such projects which could result in operating difficulties or delays in the start-up period and may cause us not to achieve our planned production, timing, quality, environmental or cost projections, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. These risks include, without limitation, difficulties in obtaining permits, equipment failures or damage, errors or miscalculations in engineering, design specifications or equipment manufacturing, faulty construction or workmanship, defective equipment or installation, human error, industrial accidents, weather conditions, failure to comply with environmental and other permits, and complex integration of processes and equipment. Our industry is exposed to certain risks due to the bulk nature of materials that require quantity estimates. Our operations involve the intake, processing, and transport of bulk materials. Although we make diligent efforts to monitor and confirm exact amounts of inventory at all phases of our operations, inventory counts from time to time may include estimates of material. We believe our estimates to be reasonable and we apply various internal controls (including, among other methods, weighing deliveries and rolling inventory balances using quantities bought and sold) to check their validity. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. Our stockholders may never obtain a return on their investment. We have never declared or paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all our earnings, if any, in 20 Table of Contents the foreseeable future will be used to finance the operation and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay dividends to holders of our capital stock is limited by our senior secured credit facilities, term notes and our outstanding convertible notes. Any future determination to pay dividends on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon various factors, including, without limitation, our results of operations and financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and certain instruments binding on us contain provisions that could discourage a change in control. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as currently in effect, as well as Delaware law, may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect or may delay or make more difficult an acquisition or change in control not approved by our Board of Directors, whether by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging third parties from making proposals involving an acquisition or change in control, although such a proposal, if made, might be considered desirable by a majority of our stockholders. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management team without the concurrence of our Board of Directors. In addition, our outstanding Convertible Notes and certain of our warrants also contain change in control provisions that could discourage a change in control. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in order to assess our internal controls over financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting may be found to be deficient. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting and requires auditors to attest to that assessment. Current regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, require us to include this assessment in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for each of our fiscal years. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in maintaining compliance with existing subsidiaries, implementing and testing controls at recently acquired subsidiaries and responding to the new requirements. In particular, the rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess its internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Our process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting may cause a significant strain on our management, information systems and resources. We may have to invest in additional accounting and software systems. We have been and may continue to be required to hire additional personnel and to use outside legal, accounting and advisory services. In addition, we will incur additional fees from our auditors as they perform the additional services necessary for them to provide their attestation. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting when we are required to, we may be required to change our internal control over financial reporting to remediate deficiencies. In addition, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements causing our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile over the past twelve months and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and continues to be volatile. We cannot predict the price at which our common stock will trade in the future and it may decline. The price at which our common stock trades may fluctuate significantly and may be influenced by many factors, including our financial results, developments generally affecting our industries, the performance of each of our business segments, our capital structure (including the amount of our indebtedness), general economic, industry and market conditions, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, fluctuations in metal prices, investor perceptions of our business and us, reports by industry analysts, negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performances, and the impact of other “Risk Factors” discussed in this prospectus. 21 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants or upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We had 48,143,379 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2013. We also had 303,736 deferred shares granted but unissued to employees under our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, options to purchase an aggregate of 1,051,288 shares of our common stock were outstanding, of which 1,048,427 were vested as of December 31, 2013. All remaining options will vest over various periods ranging up to a three-year period measured from the date of grant. As of December 31, 2013, the weighted-average exercise price of the vested stock options was $4.01 per share. As of December 31, 2013, we also had warrants outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 1,419,231 shares of common stock, at a weighted-average exercise price of $12.89 per share and convertible notes in the principal amount of $23.5 million outstanding, which are convertible at a price of $14.00 per share into 1,676,358 shares. The convertible notes contain “weighted average” anti-dilution protection which provides for an adjustment of the conversion price of the notes in the event that we issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable for shares of our common stock at a price below the conversion price of the notes. The amount of any such adjustment will depend on the price such securities are sold at and the number of shares issued or issuable in such transaction. We also may issue additional shares of stock in connection with our business, including in connection with acquisitions and financings and may grant additional stock options to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our stock option plans or warrants to third parties. If a significant portion of these shares were sold in the public market, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 