ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial performance, and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K, as the forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, and actual results and conditions could differ materially from the current expectations. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk, and before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider these risk factors as well as other information we include or incorporate by reference in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition to other information set forth in this report, readers should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating Access Worldwide and our business. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risks could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We face risks related to our Debt Agreement Our Debt Agreement dated June 10, 2003, as amended on August 11, 2003, November 13, 2003, and November 12, 2004, August 12, 2005, and March 7, 2006 contains various financial covenants that must be complied with on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the Company will comply with these covenants in the future. The failure to comply with these covenants could negatively impact the liquidity and cash flow of the Company and therefore materially and adversely affect the Company. We have incurred significant losses over the last three years and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have an accumulated deficit of $75.6 million through December 31, 2005, including a net loss of approximately $4.7 million in 2005, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We will need to generate significantly higher revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will realize sufficient revenues or margins to sustain our business. Such conditions raise substantial doubt that we will be able to continue as a going concern without receiving additional funding or generating increased revenue in the future. We may not be able to obtain additional capital to fund our operations on reasonable terms and this could hurt our business and negatively impact our stockholders. If adequate funds in the form of equity or debt are not available on reasonable terms or terms acceptable to us in the future, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of convertible debt or additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the securities may impose restrictions on our operations. Any additional funding would require the approval of CapitalSource Finance, LLC (“CapitalSource”), the Company’s institutional lender, and CapitalSource may not approve new funding if it requires subordination of their security interest, even if the funding is in the best interest of the Company or our stockholders. Ability to pay Convertible Notes and possible dilution. We have limited cash resources and our inability to make principal payments on our Convertible Notes in the future result in increase shareholder dilution. Convertible Notes I for $2.1 million becomes due during October 2006; however, payment is subject to approval of CapitalSource. In the event that approval is not obtained from CapitalSource, the Convertible Notes I will be in default and will accrue interest at the default rate of 16% retroactive to the issuance date and default warrants will become effective. The default interest will continue to accrue until such time that the Convertible Notes I are repaid or converted. Conversion of the convertible notes will significantly dilute the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. If shares of our common stock are issued to the investors upon conversion of our Convertible Notes I, II, and IV, existing stockholders will have their ownership percentage substantially diluted. The number of shares of common stock issuable under the terms of the convertible notes will also affect our loss or earnings per share on a going-forward basis. The larger the number of shares deemed outstanding, the lower our earnings per share will be. The actual effect of any conversion on our loss or earnings per share will depend on the level of our losses or earnings in future periods, and the actual amount converted pursuant to the convertible notes. At December 31, 2005, $3.25 million in principal under the Convertible Notes I and II are convertible into 3.25 million shares of our common stock. On March 17, 2006 we completed the issuance of Convertible Debt IV for approximately $2.5 million of proceeds which are convertible into 5.0 million shares of our common stock 12 Table of Contents Our growth is dependent on various factors Our business and future operations depend significantly on our ability to utilize our existing infrastructure and databases to perform services for new clients, as well as on our ability to develop and successfully implement new marketing methods or channels for new services for existing clients. Continued growth will also depend on a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • Maintain the high quality of services we provide to customers; • Recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel; • Train existing sales representatives or recruit new sales representatives to sell various categories of services; and, • Open new service facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner. In light of, among other things, our limited resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to execute our strategy effectively. Any growth that we would be able to attain would require the implementation of enhanced operational and financial systems and resources, as well as additional management of the resources needed for which we may not have available. Any such growth, if not managed effectively, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Our future growth is dependent on the trend toward outsourcing Our business and future operations depend largely on the industry trend toward outsourcing marketing services, particularly by pharmaceutical and telecommunications companies. There can be no assurance that this trend will continue, as companies may elect to perform such services internally. A significant change in the direction of this trend, particularly, whereby such industries cease or reduce their use of outsourced marketing services, such as those provided by us, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are heavily dependent on the industries we serve, particularly the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries Our business and future operations are dependent to a great extent on the industries we serve, particularly the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries. We also rely heavily on pharmaceutical and telecommunications companies increasing their marketing budgets as to which there can be no assurance. There can be no assurance that the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries will grow or that they will continue to utilize entities such as Access Worldwide for outsourced marketing services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our business will benefit from any growth that these industries experience. These industries are heavily regulated by federal and state authorities. Existing regulation, or increased regulation in the future, could negatively impact the ability of the industries to operate or grow. Anything that inhibits the operations or growth of the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We may be affected by changes in a drug’s lifecycle A substantial portion of our contracts are with pharmaceutical companies for medical education, product stocking and detailing services. We may be negatively impacted if contracts are delayed or cancelled as a result of new drugs not receiving FDA approval or existing drugs being removed from the market due to health or safety issues. Though we have cancellation clauses in some of our contracts allowing us to recoup any expenditure that was made to support a program in the event of such non-approval or non-renewal, such cancellations could materially affect the Company. We could be severely impacted by the loss of any of the Company’s largest clients Our largest clients, SBC Communications, Inc., Novartis International AG, and Anderson DDB, together accounted for approximately 59.1% of Access Worldwide’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. There can be no assurance that these clients will continue to do business with us, and the loss of business from any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 13 Table of Contents We could be affected by a loss of contracts The majority of our contracts are short-term and cancelable on 90 days notice or less, including, in the case of one principal client, cancellation by that client can be made with no advance notice. Although the contracts typically require payment of certain fees in the event the contract is terminated, the loss of any of our large contracts or the loss of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We rely on technology and could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to maintain facilities with the needed equipment We have invested significant funds in specialized telecommunications and computer technologies and equipment to provide customized solutions to meet our clients’ needs. In addition, we have invested significantly in sophisticated proprietary databases and software that enable us to market our clients’ products to targeted markets. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology and proprietary databases on a timely basis in the future in order to maintain our competitiveness. We have leased equipment and have expended substantial time and resources to train our personnel in the operation of our existing equipment and to integrate the operations of our systems and facilities. In the event of substantial improvements in computer technologies and telecommunications equipment, we may be required to acquire such new technologies and equipment at significant cost and/or phase out a portion of our existing equipment. There can be no assurance that our technologies and equipment will not be rendered obsolete or our services rendered less marketable. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to develop and maintain the technology and systems necessary for our business. We are dependent on key personnel and may be affected by changes in senior management The success of the Company depends in large part upon the abilities and continued service of our key management personnel. The failure of the Company to retain the services of all of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to support any growth that we are able to effectuate, we will be required to recruit and retain additional qualified management personnel. In light of our limited resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit and retain such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our labor force and could be affected by potentially high turnover rates Many aspects of our business are labor intensive, and based on the transient nature of our work force, there is a potential for high personnel turnover. Our operations typically require specially trained persons, such as those employees who market services and products in languages other than English and those employees with expertise in the pharmaceutical detailing business. A higher turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease operating efficiencies and productivity. In addition, any growth in our business will require us to recruit and train qualified personnel at an accelerated rate from time to time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to hire, train and retain a sufficient labor force of qualified persons to meet the needs of our business. We could be affected by a business interruption Our business is highly dependent on our computer, software and telephone equipment. The temporary or permanent loss of such systems or equipment, through casualty or operating malfunction, or a significant increase in the cost of telephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services, could have a material adverse affect on the Company. Our property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses that we may incur in any such event. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price has declined substantially at times in the previous year and may become more volatile The market price of Access Worldwide’s common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future as well. During 2005, our stock’s closing price fluctuated from a low of $0.47 to a high of $0.98. The average trading volume for the past 52 weeks was 10,040 shares per day, but the volatility of the price is often driven by trading volumes that can total less than 5,000 shares of common stock per day. With this level of volume, small trades can have a significant impact on the price. Additional factors that may have a significant impact on the market price of the stock include: • Future announcements concerning Access Worldwide or our competitors; • Results of technological innovations or service extensions; • Government regulations; and • Changes in general market conditions, particularly in the market for micro-cap stocks. Shortfalls in Access Worldwide’s revenues or earnings in any given period relative to any expectations in the securities markets could immediately, significantly and adversely affect the trading price of the common stock. We have experienced and may experience future quarter to quarter fluctuations in our results of operations. Quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the size and timing of client orders, changes in client budgets, material variations in the cost of telephone services, the demand for our services, the timing of the introduction of new services and service enhancements by the Company, the market acceptance of new services, competitive conditions in the industries we serve, our ability to effectuate any strategic transactions and general economic conditions. These factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in decreasing revenues and earnings, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. We face risk due to our stock trading on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) Because our stock trades on the OTCBB and not on an exchange or the NASDAQ National Market or NASDAQ Capital Market, we have less ability to access the public equity and debt markets, should it be necessary or advisable to do so, than if our stock traded on one of those other more recognizable trading venues. We face a risk that we may not be able to successfully operate our new communication center in Manila, Philippines Our communication center in the Philippines represents our first off-shore communication center. The opening of this Center required substantial investment, the establishment of a Philippines management team, and securing contracts to perform work at this Center. The inability to continue to execute one or all of the above items would have a material adverse effect on the Company. Risks Related to Our Industry We may be adversely impacted by competition, industry consolidation and potential consumer saturation The outsourced marketing services industry in which we operate is very competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with other outsourced marketing services companies, ranging in size from very small companies offering specialized applications or short-term projects to large independent companies. While many companies provide outsourced marketing services, we believe that there is no single company that dominates the entire industry. A significant number of our competitors and potential competitors have more extensive marketing capabilities, more extensive experience and greater financial resources than the Company. Consolidation among prospective clients also increases competition for buyers of our services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect the Company. 15 Table of Contents We were impacted by the events of September 11, 2001, and may be impacted in the future by events of a similar nature, war and other international conflicts Our businesses were impacted by the events of September 11, 2001 when we experienced, among other things, lost production days at our communication centers, lower than expected call volume and cancelled medical education meetings. To the extent that there are any further events of a nature similar to that of September 11, 2001, war and other international conflicts, or a prolonged downturn in the U.S. economy, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulations and compliance with these regulations can be costly, time consuming and subject the Company to fines for non-compliance Several industries in which our clients operate are subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation, particularly the pharmaceutical and telecommunications industries. Generally, compliance with these regulations is the responsibility of our clients. However, we are exposed to a variety of enforcement or private actions for our failure or the failure of our clients to comply with such regulations. Pharmaceutical companies, in particular, and the healthcare industry, in general, are subject to significant federal and state regulations. There can be no assurance that additional federal or state legislation or rules regulating the pharmaceutical or healthcare industries will not be enacted. Any such new legislation or rules could limit the scope of our services or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Our communication centers must comply with a variety of regulations as well. We believe our operating procedures comply with the telephone solicitation rules of the FCC and FTC. However, we cannot assure you that additional federal or state legislation, or changes in regulatory implementation, would not limit the activities of the Company or our clients in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, the majority of states require outbound telemarketers to comply with various registration and documentation requirements. Failure to comply with the registration requirements could result in fines and call prohibitions which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, including in this report, we may publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Those statements represent our current expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends concerning matters that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking statements include, among others: • Statements regarding proposed activities pursuant to agreements with clients; • Future plans relating to our business strategy; and, • Trends, or proposals, or activities of clients or industries which we serve. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited, to the following: • Risks associated with our Debt Agreement; 16 Table of Contents • Competition from other third-party providers and those of our clients and prospects who may decide to do the work that we do in-house; • Industry consolidation which reduces the number of clients that we are able to serve; • Potential consumer saturation reducing the need for our services; • Certain needs for our growth; • Our dependence on the continuation of the trend toward outsourcing; • Dependence on the industries we serve; • The effect of changes in a drug’s life cycle; • Our ability and our clients’ ability to comply with state, federal and industry regulations; • Reliance on a limited number of major clients; • The effects of possible contract cancellations; • Reliance on technology; • Reliance on key personnel and recent changes in management; • Reliance on our labor force; • The possible impact of terrorist activity or attacks, war and other international conflicts, and a downturn in the US economy; • The effects of an interruption of our business; • The volatility of our stock price; • Risks associated with our stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board; and • Our inability to successfully operate our communication center in the Philippines. 