Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. Existence of a controlling shareholder. A majority of our outstanding common stock is owned by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. (“Tontine”). As a result, Tontine can control some of our affairs, including the election of directors who in turn appoint management. Tontine controls any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to our corporate charter and approval of any potential merger or sale of all or substantially all assets, divisions, or the Company itself. This control also gives Tontine the ability to bring matters to a shareholder vote that may not be in the best interest of our other stakeholders. Tontine also controls decisions requiring shareholder approval affecting our capital structure, such as the issuance or repurchase of capital stock, the issuance or repayment of debt, and the declaration of dividends. Additionally, Tontine is in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our controlling shareholder has announced its intention to explore alternatives relative to the possible disposition of its holdings in our Company. On November 10, 2008, Tontine, our controlling shareholder, filed an amended Schedule 13D indicating, among other things, that it has begun to explore alternatives for the disposition of its holdings in our Company, including both common stock and a $25.0 million term loan. In addition, on October 22, 2009 Tontine filed a further amendment to it’s Schedule 13D indicating, among other things, that it has determined to form TCP Overseas Master Fund II, L.P., (“TCP 2”) during the fourth quarter of 2009 and that it anticipates that the newly formed TCP 2 will become the beneficial owner of an as-yet-undetermined portion of IES securities. To the extent that TCP 2 acquires beneficial ownership of any such securities, TCP 2 may hold and/or dispose of such securities or may purchase additional securities of the Company, at any time and from time to time in the open market or otherwise. Our credit agreements contain provisions for default in the event of a change in control. Similarly, certain of our financial arrangements and employment contracts contain provisions that will be triggered or accelerated upon the occurrence of a change of control event. Tontine, together with its affiliates, owns approximately 58% of our outstanding common stock. Should Tontine sell its position in the Company to a single shareholder or a non Tontine affiliated group of shareholders, a change in control event would occur, causing us to be in default under our credit agreements and triggering the 12 Table of Contents change of control provisions in certain of our employment contracts. Tontine also holds our $25.0 million term loan due on May 12, 2013, which may or may not be negotiated for repayment in connection with Tontine’s exploration process or under the terms of a potential sale of the Company. Availability of net operating losses may be reduced by a change in ownership. A change in ownership, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, could reduce the availability of net operating losses for federal and state income tax purposes. Should Tontine sell or exchange all or a portion of its position in IES, a change in ownership could occur. In addition a change in ownership could occur resulting from the purchase of common stock by an existing or a new 5% shareholder as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382. Currently, we have approximately $185 million of federal net operating losses that are available to use to offset taxable income, exclusive of net operating losses from the amortization of additional tax goodwill. In addition, we have approximately $52 million of net operating loss not currently available due to the limitation imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, exclusive of net operating losses from the amortization of additional tax goodwill, and will be available to offset taxable income in future periods. Should a change in ownership occur, all net operating losses incurred prior to the change in ownership would be subject to limitation imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and this would substantially reduce the amount of net operating loss currently available to offset taxable income. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: • expand the range of services we offer to customers to address their evolving needs; • attract new customers; • increase the number of projects performed for existing customers; • hire and retain qualified employees; • expand geographically, and • address the challenges presented by difficult economic or market conditions that may affect us or our customers. In addition, our customers may delay, reduce or cancel the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the demand for their products and services and the risk of which has become heightened in light of the recent economic downturn. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth of our business or expand our operations. To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales and, that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents The highly competitive nature of our industry could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. The electrical contracting industry is highly fragmented and is served by many small, owner-operated private companies. There are also several large private regional companies and a small number of large public companies from which we face competition in the industry. In the future, we could also face competition from new competitors entering these markets because certain segments of electrical contracting have a relatively low barrier for entry. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. As discussed in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. The availability and cost of surety bonds affect our ability to enter into new contracts and our margins on those engagements. Many of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a surety. Those bonds guarantee the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. We obtain surety bonds from two primary surety providers; however, there is no commitment from either of these providers to guarantee our ability to issue bonds for projects as they are required. Our ability to access this bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety providers. Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in residential construction. Untimely weather delay from rain, heat, ice, cold or snow can not only 14 Table of Contents delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. Additionally, cost increases in construction materials such as steel, aluminum, copper and lumber can alter the rate of new construction. The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, more than half of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of fuel, labor and materials, including copper wire, may vary significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. Commodity costs may fluctuate materially and we may not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices and if the cost associated with commodities such as copper, aluminum, steel, fuel and certain plastics increase, our expected profit may decline under that contract. We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that we may acquire. As a part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire companies that complement or enhance our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper overall business controls, our strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating acquired companies involves a number of risks, which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulties in managing our billings and collections. Our billings under fixed price contracts are generally based upon achieving certain milestones and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those milestones have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which, if experienced across several large projects, could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facility. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms and requirements of our credit facility may result in a default under one or more of our material agreements, which could have a material adverse effect our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in renewing or replacing our existing credit facility upon maturity at May 12, 2010. Our existing credit facility includes a facility for letters of credit which we use as collateral for bonding, insurance, and projects. Should we be unsuccessful in renewing or replacing our existing facility, cash would be used to collateralize existing and new letters of credit. We cannot provide assurance that we will have available cash on hand to collateralize any or all needed letters of credit and maintain adequate cash balances to meet our operating needs. 15 Table of Contents Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment write-offs. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” if the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, is in excess of the fair value of the assets of the business we acquire. Generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires that goodwill attributable to each of our reporting units be tested at least annually. The testing includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, market multiples and market capitalization. Significant estimates used in the methodologies include estimates of future cash flows, future short-term and long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimates of market multiples for each of the reportable units. On an ongoing basis, we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually as of September 30. Impairment adjustments, if any, are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. The vendors who make up our supply chain may be adversely affected by the current operating environment and credit market conditions. We are dependent upon the vendors within our supply chain to maintain a steady supply of inventory, parts and materials under our existing just-in-time inventory system. Many of our divisions are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and significant supply disruptions could adversely affect our operations. Under current market conditions, including both the construction slowdown and the tightening credit market, it is possible that one or more of our suppliers will be unable to meet the terms of our operating agreements due to financial hardships, liquidity issues or other reasons related to the market slowdown. Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards associated with the construction of electrical systems. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery-caused injuries, mechanical failures and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves. No assurance can be given that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations; nor can we provide assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. Our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effectiveness of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective action, including process improvements, are being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give reasonable assurance that they are effective and achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that our judgments can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any 16 Table of Contents design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effect control system, misstatements due to error could occur without being detected. We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by the tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We have established reserves to be used in the event that a taxing authority differs with the positions we have taken; however, in the event that disagreement over our tax positions does arise, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected. Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are frequently claims and litigation. There are also inherent claims and litigation risk associated with the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road everyday. Claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed for amounts in excess of their value or in excess of the amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. However, there may be periods of time in which a disproportionate amount of our claims and litigation are concluded in the same quarter or year. If multiple matters are resolved during a given period, then the cumulative effect of these matters may be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect claims could expand. Latent defect litigation is normal for residential home builders in some parts of the country; however, such litigation is increasing in certain states where we perform work. Also, in recent years, latent defect litigation has expanded to aspects of the Commercial market. Should we experience similar increases in our latent defect claims and litigation, additional pressure may be placed on the profitability of the Residential and Commercial segments of our business. The loss of a group or several key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and management personnel at our divisions. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. We have employment agreements in place with our executives and many of our key senior leadership; however, such employment agreements cannot guarantee that we will not lose key employees, nor prevent them from competing against us, which is often dependent on state and local employment laws. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a division, we may not be able to recruit suitable replacements at comparable salaries or at all, which could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, we do not maintain key man life insurance for members of our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 