ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, you should carefully read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks related to us and our common stock - Generally The delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Stock Market could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of common stock or securities convertible into common stock. 6 Index Effective October 14, 2004, due to a NASDAQ staff determination to delist our common stock, our stock began trading in the over-the-counter (“OTC”) market. Prior to the delisting, our common stock was quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The liquidity of our common stock is reduced by trading on the OTC market as compared to quotation on the NASDAQ Stock Market. The coverage of the Company by security analysts and media could be reduced, which could result in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise prevail and could also result in increased spreads between the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Additionally, certain investors will not purchase securities that are not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, which could materially impair our ability to raise funds through the issuance of common stock or other securities convertible into common stock. Because the trading price of our common stock is currently below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is subject to certain restrictions and the market for our common stock could diminish. Because the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under that Rule, brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and the purchaser’s written consent prior to any transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any equity security not traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share), including th e delivery of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Such requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock. Changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect our net income. Our borrowings and the availability of further borrowings are substantially affected by, among other things, changes in interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates will affect our net income to the extent our operations and our fixed rate assets are funded by variable rate debt. We are also affected by foreign currency exchange rate changes, as a significant portion of our assets are invested in foreign currencies, mainly the euro. See Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for further analysis of the impact of interest and currency rate fluctuations on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not retain our key employees and management team our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. Our future performance will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our key executive, finance and accounting, and managerial personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain them. The loss of one or more of our senior management personnel may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. When we lose key employees, new employees must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model in addition to performing their regular duties and integration of these individuals often results in some disruption to our business. In addition, our ability to execute our business strategy will depend on our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our key employees are not obligated to continue their employment with us and could leave at any time. As part of our strategy to attract and retain personnel, we offer stock option grants to certain employees. However, given the fluctuations of the market price of and limited market our common stock, potential employees may not perceive our equity incentives such as stock options as attractive, and current employees whose options are no longer priced below market value may choose not to remain employed by us. In addition, due to the intense competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase our operating expenses. We may be subject to litigation, which may be expensive and may be time consuming for our management team. We vigorously defend ourselves in litigation, which can cause increased professional fees from our external legal counsel, and may be time consuming for our management team. If we fail to succeed in defending ourselves in certain lawsuits, our liquidity could be negatively affected. See Item 3 – Legal Proceeds for detailed description of current litigation. Changes to our liquidity may affect our net income and future business plans. The sale of real estate and other investments has historically been a recurring part of operations and a source of liquidity. However, most of those investments have been liquidated as the Company focused on the Fatburger operations. Borrowings and Fatburger’s operations are now the major source of liquidity for the Company and management expects these sources, including the sale of Fatburger franchises, to generate adequate cash flow to meet the Company’s liquidity needs for the next fiscal year. The Company has experienced losses from operations since its 2004 fiscal year. During this period, the Company’s operations and activities have become more focused on restaurant and other more typical commercial business activities and have been transitioning away from finance and rea l estate activities. The growth strategies for the restaurant and other commercial operations, as well as administrative cost burdens, may threaten the Company’s liquidity position. If our existing liquidity position were to prove insufficient, and we were unable to repay, renew or replace maturing indebtedness on terms reasonably satisfactory to us, we may be required to sell (potentially on short notice) a portion of our assets, and could incur losses as a result. Specific risks to our liquidity position include, but are not limited to, interest rate risk, Fatburger’s debt covenants and Fatburger’s store expansion. 7 Index Insiders own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates owned approximately 56.9% of our common stock. Andrew Wiederhorn (Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer), his wife Tiffany Wiederhorn and entities controlled by Mr. and Mrs. Wiederhorn, together own approximately 41.1% of our common stock at December 31, 2008. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors have the ability to affect the outcome of, or exert considerable influence over, all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. This concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtai n control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Risks related to Fatburger Fatburger debt covenant At December 31, 2008, Fatburger had not made all of the required payments on indebtedness with an outstanding principal balance of $3.9 million. As a result, the lender had declared the indebtedness in default and has accelerated the maturity date of the entire balance. The Company is currently engaged in discussions to restructure the debt. If the Company is unsuccessful in renegotiating the debt with the lender and obtaining waivers of the default, the resulting consequences could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition to the payment default, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, Fatburger was not in compliance with all obligations under the agreements evidencing its indebtedness, as defined in the applicable agreements, due to its failure to meet the prescribed fixed charge coverage ratio and the prescribed debt-coverage ratio in three notes payable. The lender subsequently issued a waiver of the covenant violations for December 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that Fatburger will be able to comply with all of its obligations under the agreements evidencing its indebtedness in the future, or that lenders will agree to waive future defaults. Failure to satisfy covenants in the Company’s loan documents may result in a default and acceleration of outstanding obligations. Fatburger may not be able to achieve its planned expansion. We believe our Fatburger segment will constitute an increasingly important part of our business going forward. In addition to the risks associated generally with a restaurant business, such as changing consumer tastes and price pressure from competing businesses, our success depends in large part on our ability to expand Fatburger’s operations. We intend to grow Fatburger primarily through developing additional new franchisee and Company-owned restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including: · the availability of financing to Fatburger and to franchisees at acceptable rates and upon acceptable terms; · the availability of sufficient liquidity to fund continued expansion; · development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts; · delays in the completion of construction; · the inability to identify, or the unavailability of, suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; · developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; · incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event that a development project is abandoned prior to completion; · the inability to obtain all required governmental permits; · changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations; and · changes in general economic and business conditions. Although we intend to manage Fatburger’s operations and development to reduce such risks, we cannot assure you that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot assure you that we will complete the development and construction of the restaurants, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner or within budget, or that any restaurants will generate our expected returns on investment. Our inability to expand Fatburger in accordance with our plans or to manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain financing sufficient to fund our planned expansion of Fatburger. We are implementing a nationwide and international expansion of franchise and company-owned locations of Fatburger, which will require significant liquidity. If Fatburger or its franchisees are unsuccessful in obtaining capital sufficient to fund this expansion, the timing of restaurant openings may be delayed and Fatburger’s results may be harmed. 8 Index Fatburger’s success depends on its ability to locate a sufficient number of suitable new restaurant sites. One of the biggest challenges in meeting our growth objectives for Fatburger will be to secure an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. We have experienced delays in opening some Fatburger restaurants and may experience delays in the future. There can be no assurance that sufficient suitable locations will be available for our planned expansion in any future period. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants could materially adversely affect Fatburger’s performance and our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, Fatburger is expanding into international markets, which may have additional challenges and requirements. New restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, if at all, for several months. We anticipate that new Fatburger restaurants will generally take several months to reach normalized operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with new restaurants, including lack of market awareness, the need to hire and train a sufficient number of team members, operating costs, which are often materially greater during the first several months of operation than thereafter, pre-opening costs and other factors. Further, some, or all of the new restaurants may not attain anticipated operating results or results similar to those of Fatburger’s existing restaurants. In addition, restaurants opened in new markets may open at lower average weekly sales volumes than restaurants opened in existing markets and may have higher restaurant-level operating expense ratios than in existing markets. 60;Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach average annual company-owned restaurant sales, if at all, thereby affecting the profitability of these restaurants. Fatburger’s existing systems and procedures may be inadequate to support our growth plans. We face the risk that Fatburger’s existing systems and procedures, restaurant management systems, financial controls, information and accounting systems, management resources and human resources will be inadequate to support our planned expansion of company-owned and franchised restaurants. Expansion may strain Fatburger’s infrastructure and other resources, which could slow restaurant development or cause other problems. We may not be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on Fatburger’s infrastructure and other resources. Any failure by us to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to achieve Fatburger’s expansion objectives could have a material adverse effect on our operat ing results. The fast casual restaurant segment is highly competitive, and that competition could lower revenues, margins and market share. The fast casual restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food, and there are many well-established competitors. Each of Fatburger’s restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned quick service restaurants, fast casual restaurants, and sandwich shops and other similar types of businesses. The trend toward a convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services may increase the number of Fatburger’s competitors. Such increased competition could have a material adverse affect on Fatburger’s financial condition and results of operations. Some of Fatburger’s competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. Certain of Fatburger’s competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance as to the success of any of Fatburger’s new products, initiatives or overall strategies, or assurance that competitive product offerings, pricings and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon Fatburger’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect Fatburger and its franchisees, and thereby our operating results. The fast casual restaurant industry is affected by changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer perceptions of food safety, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing restaurants, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Factors such as inflation, food costs, labor and benefit costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect restaurant operations and administrative expenses. The ability of Fatburger and its franchisees to finance new restaurant development, improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and the acquisition of restaurants from, and sale of restaurants to, franchisees is affected by economic co nditions, including interest rates and other government policies impacting land and construction costs and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. Increases in the minimum wage may have a material adverse effect on Fatburger’s business and financial results. A substantial number of Fatburger employees are paid wage rates at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, Fatburger may need to increase not only the wages of its minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent Fatburger from offsetting the increased costs by price increases, profitability may decline. In addition, various other proposals that would require employers to provide health insurance for all of their employees are considered from time to time in Congress and various states. The imposition of any requirement that Fatburger provide health insurance to all employees on terms materially different from its existing programs could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of Fatburger. 9 Index Events reported in the media, such as incidents involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not accurate, can cause damage to Fatburger’s brand’s reputation and swiftly affect sales and profitability. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the fast casual restaurant segment and could, in the future, affect Fatburger as well. Fatburger’s brand reputation is an important asset to the business; as a result, anything that damages the brand’s reputation could immediately and severely hurt sales and, accordingly, revenues and profits. If customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, Fatburger could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants of competitor s, could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry, adversely affect sales on a local, regional or system-wide basis. A decrease in customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any Fatburger restaurants, could materially harm Fatburger’s business. Changing health or dietary preferences may cause consumers to avoid products offered by Fatburger in favor of alternative foods. The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Fatburger’s success depends, in part, upon the popularity of burgers and fast casual dining. Shifts in consumer preferences away from this cuisine or dining style could have a material adverse affect on our future profitability. The restaurant industry is characterized by the continual introduction of new concepts and is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences, tastes and eating and purchasing habits. While consumption of hamburgers and related food items in the United States has grown over the past 20 years, the demand may not continue to grow or taste trends may change. Fatburger’s success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences, t astes and eating and purchasing habits, as well as other factors affecting the food service industry, including new market entrants and demographic changes. If prevailing health or dietary preferences and perceptions cause consumers to avoid these products offered by Fatburger restaurants in favor of alternative or healthier foods, demand for Fatburger’s products may be reduced and its business could be harmed. Fatburger is subject to health, employment, environmental and other government regulations, and failure to comply with existing or future government regulations could expose Fatburger to litigation, damage Fatburger’s reputation and lower profits. Fatburger and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting their businesses. The successful development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), environmental (including litter), traffic and other regulations. Restaurant operations are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, food preparation, sanitation and safety standards, federal and state labor laws (including applicable minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions and citizenship requirements), federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, suc h as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. If Fatburger fails to comply with any of these laws, it may be subject to governmental action or litigation, and its reputation could be accordingly harmed. Injury to Fatburger’s reputation would, in turn, likely reduce revenues and profits. In recent years, there has been an increased legislative, regulatory and consumer focus on nutrition and advertising practices in the food industry, particularly among fast casual restaurants. As a result, Fatburger may become subject to regulatory initiatives in the area of nutrition disclosure or advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of its food products, which could increase expenses. The operation of Fatburger’s franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any future legislation regulating franchise relationships may negatively affect Fatburger’s operations, particularly its relationship with its franchisees. Failure to comply with new or existing franchise laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales. Changes in applicable accounting rules imposed by governmental regulators or private governing bodies could also affect Fatburger’s reported results of operations, and thus cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Fatburger’s earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of its franchisees, and Fatburger’s reputation may be harmed by actions taken by franchisees that are outside of its control. A portion of Fatburger’s earnings comes from royalties and other amounts paid by Fatburger’s franchisees. Franchisees are independent contractors, and their employees are not employees of Fatburger. Fatburger provides training and support to, and monitors the operations of, its franchisees, but the quality of their restaurant operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond Fatburger’s control. Consequently, franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with Fatburger’s high standards and requirements and franchisees may not hire and train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to an entire brand, thus damaging Fatburger’s re putation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. 10 Index Risks related to our real estate holdings Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liability. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse against the prior owners or other third parties, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: · liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination or hazardous substances; · claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; · liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and · claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC COMMENTS Not required. 