Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing industry that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other risks and uncertainties, including those that we do not currently consider material, may impair our business. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our securities to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than anticipated, we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. Since we began operations in March 1997, we have been engaged in very substantial research and development and have operated at a net loss until 2008. Although we were profitable during 2008, based on our current business plans, we expect to operate at an annual net loss for 2009 and possibly beyond. Our future profitability depends on our marketing and selling of Naglazyme and Kuvan, the successful commercialization of Aldurazyme by Genzyme, the receipt of regulatory approval of our product candidates, our ability to successfully manufacture and market any approved drugs, either by ourselves or jointly with others, and our spending on our development programs. The extent of our future losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain. If we fail to become profitable or are unable to sustain profitability on a continuing basis, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce or discontinue operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results and financial condition will be adversely affected and we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs. We may require additional financing to fund our future operations, including the commercialization of our approved drugs and drug product candidates currently under development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, and potential licenses and acquisitions. We may be unable to raise additional financing if needed due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our product programs, and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise additional financing if we need such funds, we may have to delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs and our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. We expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of capital for our operations for the foreseeable future. The amount of capital we will need depends on many factors, including: • our ability to successfully market and sell Naglazyme; • our ability to successfully market and sell Kuvan; • Genzyme’s ability to successfully commercialize Aldurazyme; • the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and the costs of post-marketing studies which may be required by regulatory authorities; • the time and cost necessary to develop commercial manufacturing processes, including quality systems, and to build or acquire manufacturing capabilities; • the time and cost necessary to respond to technological and market developments; • any changes made to or new developments in our existing collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships or any new collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships that we may establish; and • whether our convertible debt is converted to common stock in the future. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, our fixed expenses such as rent, license payments, interest expense and other contractual commitments are substantial and may increase in the future. These fixed expenses may increase because we may enter into: • additional licenses and collaborative agreements; • additional contracts for product manufacturing; and • additional financing facilities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment securities at December 31, 2008 will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for the foreseeable future based on our current long-term business plans. These estimates are based on assumptions and estimates, which may prove to be wrong. We may need to raise additional funds from equity or debt securities, loans or collaborative agreements if we are unable to satisfy our liquidity requirements. The sale of additional securities may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Furthermore, additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. This could result in the delay, reduction or termination of our research, which could harm our business. To obtain regulatory approval to market our products, preclinical studies and costly and lengthy preclinical and clinical trials are required and the results of the studies and trials are highly uncertain. As part of the regulatory approval process, we must conduct, at our own expense, preclinical studies in the laboratory and clinical trials on humans for each product candidate. We expect the number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that the regulatory authorities will require will vary depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition the drug is being developed to address and regulations applicable to the particular drug. Generally, the number and size of clinical trials required for approval increases based on the expected patient population that may be treated with a drug. We may need to perform multiple preclinical studies using various doses and formulations before we can begin clinical trials, which could result in delays in our ability to market any of our product candidates. Furthermore, even if we obtain favorable results in preclinical studies, the results in humans may be significantly different. After we have conducted preclinical studies, we must demonstrate that our drug products are safe and efficacious for use in the targeted human patients in order to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Adverse or inconclusive clinical results would stop us from filing for regulatory approval of our product candidates. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: • slow or insufficient patient enrollment; • slow recruitment of, and completion of necessary institutional approvals at, clinical sites; • longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and • regulatory requests for additional clinical trials. Typically, if a drug product is intended to treat a chronic disease, as is the case with some of our product candidates, safety and efficacy data must be gathered over an extended period of time, which can range from six months to three years or more. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for some of our products, our competitors may sell products to treat the same conditions and our revenues will be reduced. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop some drugs that may be eligible for FDA and E.U. orphan drug designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is 18 Table of Contents a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined as a patient population of fewer than 200,000 in the U.S. The company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a given rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the stated condition for a period of seven years. Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Similar regulations are available in the E.U. with a 10-year period of market exclusivity. Because the extent and scope of patent protection for some of our drug products is limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for our products that are eligible for orphan drug designation. For eligible drugs, we plan to rely on the exclusivity period under the Orphan Drug Act to maintain a competitive position. If we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our drug products that do not have broad patent protection, our competitors may then sell the same drug to treat the same condition and our revenues will be reduced. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation for certain of our products and product candidates and even if we obtain orphan drug designation for our future product candidates, due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any particular orphan indication. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug, nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. If we fail to maintain regulatory approval to commercially market and sell our drugs, or if approval is delayed, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of these products, our potential for generating positive cash flow will be diminished, and the capital necessary to fund our operations will be increased. We must obtain regulatory approval before marketing or selling our drug products in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. In the U.S., we must obtain FDA approval for each drug that we intend to commercialize. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed abroad are also subject to foreign government regulation. Naglazyme, Aldurazyme and Kuvan have received regulatory approval to be commercially marketed and sold in the U.S., E.U. and other countries. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our other product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell those drug products. Because of the risks and uncertainties in pharmaceutical development, our product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval. From time to time during the regulatory approval process for our products and our product candidates, we engage in discussions with the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities regarding the regulatory requirements for our development programs. To the extent appropriate, we accommodate the requests of the regulatory authorities and, to date, we have generally been able to reach reasonable accommodations and resolutions regarding the underlying issues. However, we are often unable to determine the outcome of such deliberations until they are final. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently resolve and comply with the inquiries and requests of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, the approval of our product candidates may be delayed and their value may be reduced. After any of our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulation, including, for example, changes to the product labeling, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices and reporting adverse reactions and other information. If we do not comply with the applicable regulations, the range of possible sanctions includes issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, suspension of marketing applications, enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies can withdraw a product’s approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. Further, the government authorities may condition approval of our product candidates 19 Table of Contents on the completion of additional post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data we collect from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is delayed or withdrawn, the value of our company and our operating results will be adversely affected. Additionally, we will be unable to generate revenue from the sale of these products, our potential for generating positive cash flow will be diminished and the capital necessary to fund our operations will be increased. If we fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, our financial results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Before we can begin commercial manufacture of our products, we, or our contract manufacturer, must obtain regulatory approval of our manufacturing facilities, processes and quality systems. In addition, pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are continuously subject to inspection by the FDA, the State of California and foreign regulatory authorities, before and after product approval. Our manufacturing facilities have been inspected and licensed by the State of California for pharmaceutical manufacture and have been approved by the FDA, the EC and health agencies in other countries for the manufacture of Aldurazyme, and by the FDA and EC for the manufacture of Naglazyme. In addition, our third-party manufacturers’ facilities involved with the manufacture of Naglazyme, Kuvan and Aldurazyme have also been inspected and approved by various regulatory authorities. Due to the complexity of the processes used to manufacture our products and product candidates, we may be unable to continue to pass or initially pass federal or international regulatory inspections in a cost effective manner. For the same reason, any potential third-party manufacturer of Naglazyme, Kuvan, and Aldurazyme or our product candidates may be unable to comply with GMP regulations in a cost effective manner. If we, or third-party manufacturers with whom we contract, are unable to comply with manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to fines, unanticipated compliance expenses, recall or seizure of our products, total or partial suspension of production and/or enforcement actions, including injunctions, and criminal or civil prosecution. These possible sanctions would adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully develop manufacturing processes for our drug products to produce sufficient quantities at acceptable costs, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and lose potential revenue, have reduced margins or be forced to terminate a program. Due to the complexity of manufacturing our products we may not be able to manufacture drug products successfully with a commercially viable process or at a scale large enough to support their respective commercial markets or at acceptable margins. Improvements in manufacturing processes typically are very difficult to achieve and are often very expensive and may require extended periods of time to develop. If we contract for manufacturing services with an unproven process, our contractor is subject to the same uncertainties, high standards and regulatory controls, and may therefore experience difficulty if further process development is necessary. Even a developed manufacturing process can encounter difficulties due to changing regulatory requirements, human error, mechanical breakdowns, malfunctions of internal information technology systems, and other events that cannot always be prevented or anticipated. Many of the processes include biological systems, which add significant complexity, as compared to chemical synthesis. We expect that, from time to time, consistent with biotechnology industry expectations, certain production lots will fail to produce product that meets our quality control release acceptance criteria. To date, our historical failure rates for all of our product programs, including Naglazyme and Aldurazyme, have been within our expectations, which are based on industry norms. 20 Table of Contents In order to produce product within our time and cost parameters, we must continue to produce product within our expected success rate and yield expectations. Because of the complexity of our manufacturing processes, it may be difficult or impossible for us to determine the cause of any particular lot failure and we must effectively take corrective action in response to any failure in a timely manner. Although we have entered into contractual relationships with third-party manufacturers to produce the active ingredient in Kuvan, 6R-BH4, if those manufacturers are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may be unable to meet demand for that product or sell that product at all and we may lose potential revenue. We also rely on third parties for portions of the manufacture of Naglazyme and Aldurazyme. If those manufacturers are unwilling or unable to fulfill their contractual obligations, we may be unable to meet demand for these products or sell these products at all and we may lose potential revenue. Further, the availability of suitable contract manufacturing capacity at scheduled or optimum times is not certain. In addition, our manufacturing processes subject us to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes resulting from their use. We may incur significant costs in complying with these laws and regulations. If we are unable to effectively address manufacturing issues, we may be unable to meet demand for our products and lose potential revenue, have reduced margins, or be forced to terminate a program. Our manufacturing facility for Naglazyme and Aldurazyme is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facility and equipment, or that of our third-party manufacturers or single-source suppliers, which could materially impair our ability to manufacture Naglazyme and Aldurazyme or our third-party manufacturer’s ability to manufacture Kuvan. Our Galli Drive facility is our only manufacturing facility for Naglazyme and Aldurazyme. It is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and is vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We, and the third-party manufacturers with whom we contract and our single-source suppliers of raw materials, are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, or any terrorist or criminal activity caused significant damage to our facilities or the facilities of our third-party manufacturers and suppliers, our ability to manufacture Naglazyme and Aldurazyme, or to have Kuvan manufactured, could be seriously, or potentially completely impaired, and our Naglazyme, Kuvan, and Aldurazyme commercialization efforts, revenue from the sale of Naglazyme, Kuvan and Aldurazyme could be seriously impaired. The insurance we maintain and our risk mitigation plans, may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Supply interruptions may disrupt our inventory levels and the availability of our products and cause delays in obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates, or harm our business by reducing our revenues. Numerous factors could cause interruptions in the supply of our finished products, including: • timing, scheduling and prioritization of production by our contract manufacturers or a breach of our agreements by our contract manufacturers; • labor interruptions; • changes in our sources for manufacturing; • the timing and delivery of shipments; • our failure to locate and obtain replacement manufacturers as needed on a timely basis; and • conditions affecting the cost and availability of raw materials. 21 Table of Contents Any interruption in the supply of finished products could hinder our ability to distribute finished products to meet commercial demand. With respect to our product candidates, production of product is necessary to perform clinical trials and successful registration batches are necessary to file for approval to commercially market and sell product candidates. Delays in obtaining clinical material or registration batches could delay regulatory approval for our product candidates. Because the target patient populations for some of our products are small, we must achieve significant market share and obtain high per-patient prices for our products to achieve profitability. Naglazyme, Aldurazyme and Kuvan all target diseases with small patient populations. As a result, our per-patient prices must be relatively high in order to recover our development and manufacturing costs and achieve profitability. For Naglazyme, we believe that we will need to market worldwide to achieve significant market penetration of the product. Due to the expected costs of treatment for our products for genetic diseases, we may be unable to maintain or obtain sufficient market share at a price high enough to justify our product development efforts and manufacturing expenses. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our drug products by third-party payers, the sales of our drugs would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable markets for our products. The course of treatment for patients using Naglazyme, Kuvan and Aldurazyme is expensive. We expect patients to need treatment throughout their lifetimes. We expect that most families of patients will not be capable of paying for this treatment themselves. There will be no commercially viable market for Naglazyme, Kuvan or Aldurazyme without reimbursement from third-party payers. Additionally, even if there is a commercially viable market, if the level of reimbursement is below our expectations, our revenue and gross margins will be adversely affected. Third-party payers, such as government or private health care insurers, carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for drugs. Reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the third-party payer, the insurance plan and other factors. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Reimbursement in the E.U. must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. The negotiation process in some countries can exceed 12 months. For our future products, we will not know what the reimbursement rates will be until we are ready to market the product and we actually negotiate the rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficiently high reimbursement rates for our products, they may not be commercially viable or our future revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our international sales are made based on special access programs, and changes to these programs could adversely affect our product sales and revenue in these countries. We make a significant portion of our international sales of Naglazyme through special access or “named patient” programs, which do not require full product approval. The specifics of the programs vary from country to country. Generally, special approval must be obtained for each patient. The approval normally requires an application or a lawsuit accompanied by evidence of medical need. Generally, the approvals for each patient must be renewed from time to time. 22 Table of Contents These programs are not well defined in some countries and are subject to changes in requirements and funding levels. Any change to these programs could adversely affect our ability to sell product in those countries and delay sales. If the programs are not funded by the respective government, there could be insufficient funds to pay for all patients. Without the special access programs we would need to seek full product approval to commercially market and sell the products. This can be an expensive and time-consuming process. Because the number of patients is so small in some countries, it may not be economically feasible to seek and maintain a full product approval, and therefore the sales in such country would be permanently reduced or eliminated. For all of these reasons, if the special access programs that we are currently using are eliminated or restricted, our revenues could be adversely affected. If we fail to compete successfully with respect to product sales, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to recover our expenses related to the development of a product program or to justify continued marketing of a product and our revenue could be adversely affected. Our competitors may develop, manufacture and market products that are more effective or less expensive than ours. They may also obtain regulatory approvals for their products faster than we can obtain them (including those products with orphan drug designation) or commercialize their products before we do. If we do not compete successfully, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to recover our expenses related to the development of a product program or to justify continued marketing of a product. In the future, government price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We expect that, in the future, reimbursement will be increasingly restricted both in the U.S. and internationally. The escalating cost of health care has led to increased pressure on the health care industry to reduce costs. Governmental and private third-party payers have proposed health care reforms and cost reductions. A number of federal and state proposals to control the cost of health care, including the cost of drug treatments, have been made in the U.S. In some foreign markets, the government controls the pricing, which can affect the profitability of drugs. Current government regulations and possible future legislation regarding health care may affect reimbursement for medical treatment by third-party payers, which may render our products not commercially viable or may adversely affect our future revenues and gross margins. In the U.S., we expect branded pharmaceutical products to be subject to increasing pricing pressures. Implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), which provides an out-patient prescription drug benefit under the Medicare program, became effective on January 1, 2006. While it is difficult to predict the final business impact of this legislation, there is additional risk associated with increased pricing pressures. While the MMA prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) from directly negotiating prescription drug prices with manufacturers, we expect continued challenges to that prohibition over the next several years. Also, the MMA retains the authority of the HHS to prohibit the importation of prescription drugs, but we expect Congress to consider several measures that could remove that authority and allow for importation of products into the U.S. regardless of their safety or cost. If adopted, such legislation would likely have a negative effect on our U.S. sales. As a result of the passage of the MMA, aged and disabled patients jointly eligible for Medicare and Medicaid receive certain prescription drug benefits through Medicare, instead of Medicaid, as of January 1, 2006. This may relieve some state budget pressures but is unlikely to result in reduced pricing pressures. Additionally, in the U.S., we are required to provide rebates to state governments on their purchases of certain of our products under state Medicaid programs. Many states have begun to implement supplemental rebates and restricted formularies in their Medicaid programs, and these programs are expected to continue in the post-MMA environment. Other cost containment measures have been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and local 23 Table of Contents government entities that provide or pay for health care. In most international markets, we operate in an environment of government-mandated cost containment programs, which may include price controls, reference pricing, discounts and rebates, restrictions on physician prescription levels, restrictions on reimbursement, compulsory licenses, health economic assessments, and generic substitution. Several states are also attempting to extend discounted Medicaid prices to non-Medicaid patients. Additionally, notwithstanding the federal law prohibiting pharmaceutical importation, several states have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, usually involving a website that links patients to selected Canadian pharmacies. At least one state has such a program for its state employees. In the absence of federal action to curtail state activities, we expect other states to launch importation efforts. As a result, we expect pressures on pharmaceutical pricing to continue. International operations are also generally subject to extensive price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls or reduce the value of our intellectual property portfolio. As part of these cost containment measures, some countries have imposed or threatened to impose revenue caps limiting the annual volume of sales of Naglazyme. To the extent that these caps are significantly below actual demand, our future revenues and gross margins may be adversely affected. We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be affected by these or other potential future legislative or regulatory developments. However, future price controls or other changes in pricing regulation could restrict the amount that we are able to charge for our current and future products, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. If we are found in violation of federal or state “fraud and abuse” laws, we may be required to pay a penalty or be suspended from participation in federal or state health care programs, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to various federal and state health care “fraud and abuse” laws, including antikickback laws, false claims laws and laws related to ensuring compliance. The federal health care program antikickback statute makes it illegal for any person, including a pharmaceutical company, to knowingly and willfully offer, solicit, pay or receive any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase, order or prescription of a particular drug, for which payment may be made under federal health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. Under federal government regulations, certain arrangements (“safe harbors”) are deemed not to violate the federal antikickback statute. We seek to comply with these safe harbors. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting or causing to be presented for payment to third party payers (including government payers) claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services that were not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Other cases have been brought under false claims laws alleging that off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products has resulted in the submission of false claims to government health care programs. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, we also are prohibited from knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payers, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and/or exclusion or suspension from federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal antikickback statute, some of which apply to referral of patients for health care services reimbursed by any source, not just governmental payers. In addition, California passed a law that requires pharmaceutical companies to comply with both the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. 24 Table of Contents Neither the government nor the courts have provided definitive guidance on the application of these laws to our business. Law enforcement authorities are increasingly focused on enforcing these laws, and it is possible that some of our practices may be challenged under these laws. While we believe we have structured our business arrangements to comply with these laws, it is possible that the government could allege violations of, or convict us of violating, these laws. If we are found in violation of one of these laws, we are required to pay a penalty or are suspended or excluded from participation in federal or state health care programs, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected. We conduct a significant amount of our sales and operations outside of the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. A significant portion of the sales of Aldurazyme and Naglazyme are generated from countries other than the United States. Additionally, we have operations in several European countries, Brazil and Turkey. We expect that we will continue to expand our foreign operations in the future. International operations inherently subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • political and economic instability; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing labor regulations and business practices; and • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or if foreign jurisdictions successfully challenge our interpretation of local taxation. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As we expand our existing international operations, we may encounter new risks. For example, as we focus on building our international sales and distribution networks in new geographic regions, we must continue to develop relationships with qualified local distributors and trading companies. If we are not successful in developing these relationships, we may not be able to grow sales in these geographic regions. These or other similar risks could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Patent protection may not be available for some of the products we are developing. If we must spend significant time and money protecting our patents, designing around patents held by others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business and financial prospects may be harmed. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. The scope and extent of patent protection for some of our products and product candidates are particularly uncertain because key information on some of our product candidates has existed in the public domain for many years. The composition and genetic sequences of animal and/or human versions of Naglazyme, Aldurazyme, and many of our product candidates have been published and are believed to be in the public domain. The chemical structure of BH4 has also been published. Publication of this information may prevent us from obtaining composition-of-matter patents, which are generally believed to offer the strongest patent protection. 25 Table of Contents For enzymes or compounds with no prospect of broad composition-of-matter patents, other forms of patent protection or orphan drug status may provide us with a competitive advantage. As a result of these uncertainties, investors should not rely solely on patents as a means of protecting our products or product candidates, including Naglazyme, Kuvan, Aldurazyme or PEG-PAL. We own or license patents and patent applications related to Naglazyme, Kuvan, Aldurazyme and certain of our product candidates. However, these patents and patent applications do not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including the following: • We do not know whether our patent applications will result in issued patents. For example, we may not have developed a method for treating a disease before others developed similar methods. • Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us. Competitors may also claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore cannot practice our technology as claimed under our patent. Competitors may also contest our patents by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a number of reasons. If a court agrees, we would lose that patent. We have no meaningful experience with competitors interfering with our patents or patent applications. • Enforcing patents is expensive and may absorb significant time of our management. Management would spend less time and resources on developing products, which could increase our operating expenses and delay product programs. • Receipt of a patent may not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. In addition, competitors also seek patent protection for their technology. Due to the number of patents in our field of technology, we cannot be certain that we do not infringe on those patents or that we will not infringe on patents granted in the future. If a patent holder believes our product infringes on their patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology. If someone else claims we infringe on their technology, we would face a number of issues, including the following: • Defending a lawsuit takes significant time and can be very expensive. • If the court decides that our product infringes on the competitor’s patent, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement. • The court may prohibit us from selling or licensing the product unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us. The patent holder is not required to grant us a license. If a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents. • Redesigning our product so it does not infringe may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. It is also unclear whether our trade secrets are adequately protected. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may also support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational institutions. These research partners may be unwilling to grant us any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations prior to entering into the relationship. 26 Table of Contents If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in our product development efforts while we attempt to design around other patents or even be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling products requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or products developed in collaboration with other parties. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has issued three patents to a third-party that relate to alpha-L-iduronidase and a related patent has issued in Canada. If we are not able to successfully challenge these patents or a related patent in Japan, if it issues, we may be prevented from producing Aldurazyme in countries with issued patents unless and until we obtain a license. The USPTO has issued three patents to Women’s and Children’s Hospital Adelaide that cover composition-of-matter, isolated genomic nucleotide sequences, vectors including the sequences, host cells containing the vectors, and method of use claims for human, recombinant alpha-L-iduronidase. Aldurazyme is based on human, recombinant alpha-L-iduronidase. A corresponding patent application was filed by a third party in the European Patent Office claiming composition-of-matter for human, recombinant alpha-L-iduronidase, and it was rejected over prior art and withdrawn and cannot be re-filed. The corresponding Japanese application was finally rejected by the Japanese Board of Appeals and the application, also lapsed after failure to timely file a court challenge, and cannot be re-filed. We do not know whether the Japanese application will issue or the scope of the claims that would issue. A corresponding Canadian patent recently issued and covers enzyme, pharmaceutical composition, nucleic acid encoding the enzyme, host and cell vector. We believe that these patents, and the Japanese patent application, if issued, are invalid or not infringed on a number of grounds. In addition, under U.S. law, issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity, and a challenge to the U.S. patents may be unsuccessful. Even if we are successful, challenging the patents may be expensive, require our management to devote significant time to this effort and may adversely impact commercialization of Aldurazyme in the U.S. and Canada (or in Japan, should a patent issue arise in that country.) If our Manufacturing, Marketing and Sales Agreement with Genzyme were terminated, we could be barred from commercializing Aldurazyme or our ability to successfully commercialize Aldurazyme would be delayed or diminished. Either party may terminate the Manufacturing, Marketing and Sales Agreement (MMS Agreement) between Genzyme and us related to Aldurazyme for specified reasons, including if the other party is in material breach of the agreement, has experienced a change of control, or has declared bankruptcy and also is in breach of the agreement. Although we are not currently in breach of this agreement and we believe that Genzyme is not currently in breach of this agreement, there is a risk that either party could breach the agreement in the future. Either party may also terminate the agreement upon one year prior written notice for any reason. If the MMS Agreement is terminated for breach, the breaching party will transfer its interest in the LLC to the non-breaching party, and the non-breaching party will pay a specified buyout amount for the breaching party’s interest in Aldurazyme and in the LLC. If we are the breaching party, we would lose our rights to Aldurazyme and the related intellectual property and regulatory approvals. If the MMS Agreement is terminated without cause, the non-terminating party would have the option, exercisable for one year, to buy out the terminating party’s interest in Aldurazyme and in the LLC at a specified buyout amount. If such option is not exercised, all rights to Aldurazyme will be sold and the LLC will be dissolved. In the event of termination of the buy out option without exercise by the non-terminating party as described above, all right and title to Aldurazyme is to be sold to the highest bidder, with the proceeds to be split between Genzyme and us in accordance with our percentage interest in the LLC. If the MMS Agreement is terminated by either party because the other party declared bankruptcy, the terminating party would be obligated to buy out the other party and would obtain all rights to Aldurazyme exclusively. If the MMS Agreement is terminated by a party because the other party experienced a change of control, the terminating party shall notify the other party, the offeree, of its intent to buy out the offeree’s interest in Aldurazyme and the LLC for a stated amount set by the terminating party at its discretion. The offeree must 27 Table of Contents then either accept this offer or agree to buy the terminating party’s interest in Aldurazyme and the LLC on those same terms. The party who buys out the other party would then have exclusive rights to Aldurazyme. The Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement between us and Genzyme will automatically terminate upon the effective date of the termination of the MMS Agreement and may not be terminated independently from the MMS Agreement. If we were obligated, or given the option, to buy out Genzyme’s interest in Aldurazyme and the LLC, and gain exclusive rights to Aldurazyme, we may not have sufficient funds to do so and we may not be able to obtain the financing to do so. If we fail to buy out Genzyme’s interest we may be held in breach of the agreement and may lose any claim to the rights to Aldurazyme and the related intellectual property and regulatory approvals. We would then effectively be prohibited from developing and commercializing Aldurazyme. Our strategic alliance with Merck Serono may be terminated at any time by Merck Serono, and if it is terminated, our expenses could increase and our operating performance could be adversely affected. Merck Serono may terminate the agreement forming our strategic alliance with them at any time by giving 90 days prior written notice if such termination occurs prior to the commercialization of any of the products licensed under our agreement, or by giving 180 days prior written notice if such termination occurs after the commercialization of such a product. Either Merck Serono or we may terminate our strategic alliance under certain circumstances, including if the other party is in material breach of the agreement and does not remedy the breach within a specified period of time, or has suffered certain financial difficulties, including filing for bankruptcy or making an assignment for the benefit of creditors. Although we are not currently in breach of the agreement and we believe that Merck Serono is not currently in breach of the agreement, there is a risk that either party could breach the agreement in the future. Upon a termination of the agreement by Merck Serono by giving notice or by us for a material breach by Merck Serono, all rights licensed to us under the agreement become irrevocable and fully-paid except in those countries where restricted by applicable law or for all intellectual property that Merck Serono does not own. Upon a termination of the agreement by Merck Serono for a material breach by us or based on our financial difficulty, or upon the expiration of the royalty term of the products licensed under the agreement, all rights licensed to Merck Serono under the agreement become irrevocable and fully-paid upon the payment of amounts due by Merck Serono to us which accrued prior to the expiration of the royalty term, except in those countries where restricted by applicable law or for all intellectual property that we do not own and for which we do not have a royalty-free license. Upon a termination of the agreement for a material breach by us or for our financial difficulty, all rights and licenses granted by Merck Serono to us under or pursuant to the agreement will automatically terminate. Under the terms of our agreement with Merck Serono, Merck Serono is responsible to pay for a portion of the development costs of products developed pursuant to such agreement. However, at any time upon 90 days notice, Merck Serono can opt out of this responsibility. If Merck Serono opts out, or if the agreement is terminated by either Merck Serono or us, and we continue the development of products related to that agreement, we would be responsible for 100% of future development costs, our expenses could increase and our operating performance could be adversely affected. If we fail to compete successfully with respect to acquisitions, joint venture or other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products and to continue to expand our product pipeline. Our competitors compete with us to attract organizations for acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing arrangements or other collaborations. To date, several of our product programs have been acquired through acquisitions, such as PEG-PAL, and several of our product programs have been developed through licensing or collaborative arrangements, such as Naglazyme, Aldurazyme and Kuvan. These collaborations include licensing proprietary technology from, and other relationships with, academic research institutions. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify additional opportunities and to successfully enter into partnering or acquisition agreements for those opportunities. If our competitors successfully enter into partnering arrangements 28 Table of Contents or license agreements with academic research institutions, we will then be precluded from pursuing those specific opportunities. Since each of these opportunities is unique, we may not be able to find a substitute. Several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have already established themselves in the field of genetic diseases. These companies, including Genzyme, have already begun many drug development programs, some of which may target diseases that we are also targeting, and have already entered into partnering and licensing arrangements with academic research institutions, reducing the pool of available opportunities. Universities and public and private research institutions also compete with us. While these organizations primarily have educational or basic research objectives, they may develop proprietary technology and acquire patents that we may need for the development of our product candidates. We will attempt to license this proprietary technology, if available. These licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to compete successfully with respect to acquisitions, joint venture and other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products and to continue to expand our product pipeline. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the timeframes we announce and expect, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and the credibility of our management may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, the commercialization of our products may be delayed and the credibility of our management may be adversely affected and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We depend upon our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain employees. Our future growth and success depend on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. In particular, the loss of one or more of our senior executive officers could be detrimental to us if we cannot recruit suitable replacements in a timely manner. While certain of our senior executive officers are parties to employment agreements with us, these agreements do not guarantee that they will remain employed with us in the future. In addition, in many cases, these agreements do not restrict our senior executive officers’ ability to compete with us after their employment is terminated. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. Our success depends on our ability to manage our growth. Our product candidates are intended for patient populations that are significantly larger than any of MPS I, MPS VI or PKU. In order to continue development and marketing of these products, if approved, we will need to significantly expand our operations. To manage expansion effectively, we need to continue to develop and improve our research and development capabilities, manufacturing and quality capacities, sales and marketing capabilities and financial and administrative systems. Our staff, financial resources, systems, procedures or controls may be inadequate to support our operations and our management may be unable to manage successfully future market opportunities or our relationships with customers and other third parties. 29 Table of Contents Changes in methods of treatment of disease could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect revenues. Even if our drug products are approved, if doctors elect a course of treatment which does not include our drug products, this decision would reduce demand for our drug products and adversely affect revenues. For example, if gene therapy becomes widely used as a treatment of genetic diseases, the use of enzyme replacement therapy, such as Naglazyme and Aldurazyme in MPS diseases could be greatly reduced. Changes in treatment method can be caused by the introduction of other companies’ products or the development of new technologies or surgical procedures which may not directly compete with ours, but which have the effect of changing how doctors decide to treat a disease. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. We are exposed to the potential product liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human pharmaceuticals. We maintain insurance against product liability lawsuits for commercial sale of our products and for the clinical trials of our product candidates. Pharmaceutical companies must balance the cost of insurance with the level of coverage based on estimates of potential liability. Historically, the potential liability associated with product liability lawsuits for pharmaceutical products has been unpredictable. Although we believe that our current insurance is a reasonable estimate of our potential liability and represents a commercially reasonable balancing of the level of coverage as compared to the cost of the insurance, we may be subject to claims in connection with the commercial use of Orapred, our clinical trials and commercial use of Naglazyme, Kuvan and Aldurazyme, or our clinical trials for BH4 or PEG-PAL, for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. The product liability insurance we will need to obtain in connection with the commercial sales of our product candidates if and when they receive regulatory approval may be unavailable in meaningful amounts or at a reasonable cost. In addition, while we continue to take what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may be unable to avoid significant liability if any product liability lawsuit is brought against us. If we are the subject of a successful product liability claim that exceeds the limits of any insurance coverage we obtain, we may incur substantial charges that would adversely affect our earnings and require the commitment of capital resources that might otherwise be available for the development and commercialization of our product programs. Our business is affected by macroeconomic conditions. Various macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations and financial condition, including changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and overall economic conditions and uncertainties, including those resulting from the current and future conditions in the global financial markets. For instance, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, it may not be feasible to pass through price increases on to our customers due to the process by which health care providers are reimbursed for our products by the government. Interest rates, the liquidity of the credit markets and the volatility of the capital markets could also affect the value of our investments and our ability to liquidate our investments in order to fund our operations. We purchase or enter into a variety of transactions, including investments in commercial paper, the extension of credit to corporations, institutions and governments and enter into hedging contracts. If any of the issuers or counter parties to these instruments were to default on their obligations, it could materially reduce the value of the transaction and adversely affect our cash flows. Interest rates and the ability to access credit markets could also adversely affect the ability of our customers/distributors to purchase, pay for and effectively distribute our products. Similarly, these macroeconomic factors could affect the ability of our contract manufacturers, sole-source or single-source suppliers to remain in business or otherwise manufacture or supply product. Failure by any of them to remain a going concern could affect our ability to manufacture products. 30 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. Our valuation and stock price since the beginning of trading after our initial public offering have had no meaningful relationship to current or historical earnings, asset values, book value or many other criteria based on conventional measures of stock value. The market price of our common stock will fluctuate due to factors including: • product sales and profitability of Naglazyme, Aldurazyme and Kuvan; • manufacture, supply or distribution of Naglazyme, Aldurazyme or Kuvan; • progress of our product candidates through the regulatory process; • results of clinical trials, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • government regulatory action affecting our product candidates or our competitors’ drug products in both the U.S. and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • general market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and pharmaceutical market sectors; • economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad; • broad market fluctuations in the U.S. or in the E.U.; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; and • changes in company assessments or financial estimates by securities analysts. In addition, the value of our common stock may fluctuate because it is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Listing on the exchange may increase stock price volatility due to: • trading in different time zones; • different ability to buy or sell our stock; • different market conditions in different capital markets; and • different trading volume. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. In addition, the current decline in the financial markets and related factors beyond our control, including the credit and mortgage crisis in the U.S. and worldwide, may cause our stock price to decline rapidly and unexpectedly. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, our stockholders’ rights plan and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. Our anti-takeover provisions include provisions in our certificate of incorporation providing that stockholders’ meetings may only be called by the board of directors and provisions in our bylaws providing that the stockholders may not take action by written consent and requiring that stockholders that desire to nominate any person for election to the board of directors or to make any proposal with respect to business to be conducted at a meeting of our stockholders be submitted in appropriate form to our Secretary within a specified period of time in advance of any such meeting. Additionally, our board of directors has the authority to issue an additional 249,886 shares of preferred stock and to determine 31 Table of Contents the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In 2002, our board of directors authorized a stockholder rights plan and related dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock outstanding at that time. In connection with an increase in our authorized common stock, our board approved an amendment to this plan in June 2003. Our board of directors approved an additional amendment to the stockholder rights plan in February 2009. As long as these rights are attached to our common stock, we will issue one right with each new share of common stock so that all shares of our common stock will have attached rights. When exercisable, each right will entitle the registered holder to purchase from us one two-hundredth of a share of our Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $35.00 per 1/200 of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. The rights are designed to assure that all of our stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of us and to guard against partial tender offers, open market accumulations and other abusive tactics to gain control of us without paying all stockholders a control premium. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of our stock on terms not approved by our board of directors. However, the rights may have the effect of making an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult, and the existence of such rights may prevent or reduce the likelihood of a third-party making an offer for an acquisition of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 