Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks described below, as well as the other information included in this document before making an investment decision. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the value of your investment may decrease due to any of these risks. Existence of a controlling shareholder. A majority of our outstanding common stock is owned by Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively, “Tontine”). On August 15, 2014, Tontine filed an amended Schedule 13D indicating its ownership level of 61.4%. As a result, Tontine can control most of our affairs, including the election of our directors, who in turn appoint executive management, and can control most actions requiring the approval of shareholders, including the adoption of amendments to our corporate charter and approval of any potential merger or sale of all or substantially all assets, segments, or the Company itself. This control also gives Tontine the ability to bring matters to a shareholder vote that may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders or stakeholders. Additionally, Tontine is in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or act as suppliers or customers of the Company. Pursuant to a shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the SEC on June 18, 2013, Tontine has the ability to resell any or all of its registered shares from time to time in one or more offerings as long as the shelf registration statement remains effective, as described further in the shelf registration statement and in any prospectus supplement filed in connection with an offering pursuant to the shelf registration statement. Tontine’s sale of all or any portion of its shares could result in a change of control, which would trigger the change of control provisions in a number of our material agreements, including our credit facility, bonding agreements with our sureties and our executive severance plan. Although publicly traded, our common stock has less liquidity than many other stocks listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. The trading volume in our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have at times experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and this volatility may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. We may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing stockholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of September 30, 2014, we had 21,767,700 shares of common stock outstanding and no shares of preferred stock outstanding. We have reserved for issuance 170,000 shares of common stock underlying options that are 13 Table of Contents exercisable at a weighted average price of $5.46 per share. In addition, as of September 30, 2014 we had the ability to issue 648,029 shares of common stock pursuant to options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future under our existing equity compensation plans. Although we presently do not have any intention of issuing additional common stock (other than pursuant to our equity compensation plans), we may do so in the future in order to meet our capital needs. Subject to applicable NASDAQ Listing Rules, our board of directors generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the stockholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of common stock for any corporate purpose. We may seek additional equity capital in the future as we develop our business and expand our operations. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. Substantial sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by holders of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of shares into the market. Such sales, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, will adversely affect the market price for our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. Availability of net operating losses may be reduced by a change in ownership. A change in ownership, as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, could reduce the availability of net operating losses, (“NOLs”), for federal and state income tax purposes. Should Tontine sell or otherwise dispose of all or a portion of its position in IES, a change in ownership could occur. A change in ownership could also result from the purchase of common stock by an existing or a new 5% shareholder as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 382. As of September 30, 2014, we have approximately $317 million of federal NOLs that are available to use to offset taxable income, exclusive of NOLs from the amortization of additional tax goodwill. Should a change in ownership occur, all NOLs incurred prior to the change in ownership would be subject to limitation imposed by Internal Revenue Code Section 382, which would substantially reduce the amount of NOL currently available to offset taxable income. On January 28, 2013, we implemented the NOL Rights Plan, which was designed to deter an acquisition of the Company’s stock in excess of a threshold amount that could trigger a change of control within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 382. The NOL Rights Plan is designed to effectively dilute the ownership of such an acquirer through the offering of rights to the Company’s other stockholders that could be exercised upon the acquirer’s purchase of the Company’s stock in excess of the threshold amount. We can make no assurances the NOL Rights Plan will be effective in deterring a change in control or protecting or realizing NOLs. Any decrease in the federal statutory tax rate, or other changes in federal tax statutes, could also cause a reduction in the economic benefit of the NOL currently available to us. To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors that are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay 14 Table of Contents our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have restrictions and covenants under our credit facility. We may not be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility. A failure to fulfill the terms and requirements of our credit facility may result in a default under one or more of our material agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition. The highly competitive nature of our industries could affect our profitability by reducing our profit margins. With respect to electrical contracting services, the industries in which we compete are highly fragmented and are served by many small, owner-operated private companies. There are also several large private regional companies and a small number of large public companies from which we face competition in these industries. In the future, we could also face competition from new competitors entering these markets because certain segments, such as our electrical contracting services, have a relatively low barrier for entry while other segments, such as our services for mission critical infrastructure, have attractive dynamics. Some of our competitors offer a greater range of services, including mechanical construction, facilities management, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning services. Competition in our markets depends on a number of factors, including price. Some of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide services comparable to ours at lower rates than we do. If we are unable to offer our services at competitive prices or if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive, our profitability would be impaired. The markets in which Infrastructure Solutions does business are highly competitive, and we do not expect the level of competition that we face to decrease in the future. An increase in competitive pressures in these markets or our failure to compete effectively may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more customers, and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical, and other competitive resources than we have. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer needs or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products and services. While we believe Infrastructure Solutions’ overall product and service offerings distinguish it from its competitors, these competitors could develop new products or services that could directly compete with Infrastructure Solutions’ products and services. A failure to secure new contracts may adversely affect our cash flows and financial results. Much of our revenue is derived from projects that are awarded through a competitive bid process. Contract bidding and negotiations are affected by a number of factors, including our own cost structure and bidding policies. The failure to bid and be awarded projects, cancellations of projects or delays in project start dates could affect our ability to deploy our assets profitably. When we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. Further, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects that are currently active will reduce our future revenue and earnings if we are unsuccessful in selling new work. Many of our contracts may be canceled upon short notice, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts as they are completed. We could experience a decrease in profitability if we are unable to replace canceled, completed or expired contracts with new work. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers usually have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to secure new contracts depends on our ability to maintain all required electrical, construction and business licenses. If we fail to successfully transfer, renew or obtain such licenses where applicable, we may be unable to compete for new business. We may be unsuccessful at integrating other companies that we may acquire, or new types of work, products or processes into our segments. We are actively seeking to engage in acquisitions of operations, assets and investments, or to develop new types of work or processes, and we may seek to engage in dispositions of certain operations, assets or investments from time to time. If we are unable to successfully integrate newly acquired assets or operations or if we make untimely or unfavorable investments or dispositions, it could negatively impact the market value of our common stock. Additionally, any future acquisition, investment or disposition may result in significant changes in the composition of our assets and liabilities, and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and the market value of our common stock following any such acquisition, investment or disposition may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our financial condition, results of operations and market value of our common stock. The difficulties of integrating a business, assets or operations potentially will include, among other things: • geographically separated organizations and possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies; • significant demands on management resources, which may distract management’s attention from day-to-day business; • differences in the disclosure systems, compliance requirements, accounting systems, and accounting controls and procedures of the two companies, which may interfere with our ability to make timely and accurate public disclosure; and • the demands of managing new locations, new personnel and new lines of business acquired. Demand for our services is cyclical and vulnerable to economic downturns affecting the industries we serve. Demand for our services has been, and will likely continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to downturns in the general economy and in the construction industry. Many of our customers depend on the availability of credit to purchase our services or electrical and mechanical products. Continued uncertainties or the return of constrained credit market conditions could have adverse effects on our customers, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This continued uncertainty in economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our revenue and profits. Changes in operating factors that are beyond our control could hurt our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond management’s control. These factors include the costs of new technology; the relative speed and success with which Infrastructure Solutions can acquire customers for its products and services; capital expenditures for equipment; sales, marketing, and promotional activities expenses; changes in its pricing policies, suppliers, and competitors; changes in operating expenses; increased competition in the markets we serve; and other general economic and seasonal factors. Adverse changes in one or more of these factors could hurt our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits. A significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method, which results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimable and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant. We may incur significant charges or be adversely impacted by the closure or sale of additional facilities. While, historically, we have incurred significant costs associated with the closure or disposition of facilities, we will continue to evaluate the need for facility closures or dispositions from time to time in the future. If we were to elect to dispose of a substantial portion of any of our segments, the realized values of such actions could be substantially less than current book values, which would likely result in a material adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, we may have warranty claims or other unexpected liabilities from closed facilities beyond the closing date, which could adversely impact our financial returns. The availability and cost of surety bonds affect our ability to enter into new contracts and our margins on those engagements. Many of our customers require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a surety. Those bonds guarantee the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. We obtain surety bonds from two primary surety providers; however, there is no commitment from these providers to guarantee our ability to issue bonds for projects as they are required. Our ability to access this bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety providers. Due to seasonality and differing regional economic conditions, our results may fluctuate from period to period. Our business is subject to seasonal variations in operations and demand that affect the construction business, particularly in the Residential and Commercial & Industrial segments, as well as seasonal variations in the industrial and rail industries in which Infrastructure Solutions participates. Untimely weather delay from rain, heat, ice, cold or snow can not only delay our work but can negatively impact our schedules and profitability by delaying the work of other trades on a construction site. Our quarterly results may also be affected by regional economic conditions that affect the construction market. Infrastructure Solutions’ revenues from industrial services may be affected by the timing of scheduled outages at its industrial customers’ facilities and by weather 17 Table of Contents conditions with respect to projects conducted outdoors. Accordingly, our performance in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for the entire year. The estimates we use in placing bids could be materially incorrect. The use of incorrect estimates could result in losses on a fixed price contract. These losses could be material to our business. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a significant portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. The cost of fuel, labor and materials, including copper wire, may vary significantly from the costs we originally estimate. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, including our ability to successfully manage projects, may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those we originally estimated, and could result in losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from estimated contract costs can have a significant impact on our operating results. Commodity and labor costs may fluctuate materially, and we may not be able to pass on all cost increases during the term of a contract, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain our profitability. We enter into many contracts at fixed prices, and if the costs associated with labor; and commodities such as copper, aluminum, steel, fuel and certain plastics increase, losses may be incurred. Some of these materials have been and may continue to be subject to sudden and significant price increases. Depending on competitive pressures and customer resistance, we may not be able to pass on these cost increases to our customers, which would reduce our gross profit margins and, in turn, make it more difficult for us to maintain our profitability. We may experience difficulties in managing our billings and collections. Our billings under fixed price contracts in our electrical contracting business are generally based upon achieving certain milestones and will be accepted by the customer once we demonstrate those milestones have been met. If we are unable to demonstrate compliance with billing requests, or if we fail to issue a project billing, our likelihood of collection could be delayed or impaired, which, if experienced across several large projects, could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, some of our customers may be highly leveraged, or may be subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which may also limit their ability to pay. Our reported operating results could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairment charges. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) require that goodwill attributable to each of our reporting units be tested at least annually, or when changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value of our reporting units may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill include significant adverse changes in the business climate, declines in the financial condition of our business, and actual or projected operating results affecting our company as a whole or affecting any particular reporting unit. On an ongoing basis, we expect to perform impairment tests at least annually as of September 30. Impairment adjustments, if any, are required to be recognized as operating expenses. We cannot assure that we will not have future impairment adjustments to our recorded goodwill. The vendors who make up our supply chain may be adversely affected by the current operating environment and credit market conditions. We are dependent upon the vendors within our supply chain to maintain a steady supply of inventory, parts and materials. Many of our segments are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers, and significant supply disruptions could adversely affect our operations. If market conditions deteriorate, such as a slowdown in construction activity or a tightening of the credit market, it is possible that one or more of our suppliers will be 18 Table of Contents unable to meet the terms of our operating agreements due to financial hardships, liquidity issues or other reasons related to market conditions. Our operations are subject to numerous physical hazards. If an accident occurs, it could result in an adverse effect on our business. Hazards related to our industry include, but are not limited to, electrocutions, fires, machinery-caused injuries, mechanical failures and transportation accidents. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and may result in suspension of operations. Our insurance does not cover all types or amounts of liabilities. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time, our customers could cancel our contracts or not award us future business. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. Our third-party insurance is subject to deductibles for which we establish reserves. No assurance can be given that our insurance or our provisions for incurred claims and incurred but not reported claims will be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations; nor can we provide assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at reasonable rates. Our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent all possible errors that could occur. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objective will be met. On a quarterly basis we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, which include a review of the objectives, design, implementation and effectiveness of the controls and the information generated for use in our periodic reports. In the course of our controls evaluation, we sought (and seek) to identify data errors, control problems and to confirm that appropriate corrective actions, including process improvements, are being undertaken. This type of evaluation is conducted on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our controls can be reported in our periodic reports. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be satisfied. Internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are designed to give reasonable assurance that they are effective and achieve their objectives. We cannot provide absolute assurance that all possible future control issues have been detected. These inherent limitations include the possibility that our judgments can be faulty, and that isolated breakdowns can occur because of human error or mistake. The design of our system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed absolutely in achieving our stated goals under all potential future or unforeseeable conditions. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error could occur without being detected. We have adopted tax positions that a taxing authority may view differently. If a taxing authority differs with our tax positions, our results may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate and cash paid for taxes are impacted by the tax positions that we have adopted. Taxing authorities may not always agree with the positions we have taken. We have established reserves for tax positions that we have determined to be less likely than not to be sustained by taxing authorities. However, there can be no assurance that our results of operations will not be adversely affected in the event that disagreement over our tax positions does arise. 19 Table of Contents Litigation and claims can cause unexpected losses. In the construction business there are frequently claims and litigation. There are also inherent claims and litigation risks associated with the number of people that work on construction sites and the fleet of vehicles on the road every day. In all of our businesses, we are subject to potential claims and litigation. Claims are sometimes made and lawsuits filed for amounts in excess of their value or in excess of the amounts for which they are eventually resolved. Claims and litigation normally follow a predictable course of time to resolution. However, there may be periods of time in which a disproportionate amount of our claims and litigation are concluded in the same quarter or year. If multiple matters are resolved during a given period, then the cumulative effect of these matters may be higher than the ordinary level in any one reporting period. Latent defect claims could expand. Latent defect litigation is normal for residential home builders in some parts of the country; however, such litigation is increasing in certain states where we perform work. Also, in recent years, latent defect litigation has expanded to aspects of the commercial market. Should we experience similar increases in our latent defect claims and litigation, additional pressure may be placed on the profitability of the Residential and Commercial & Industrial segments of our business. We may be required to conduct environmental remediation activities, which could be expensive and inhibit the growth of our business and our ability to maintain profitability, particularly in our Infrastructure Solutions business. We are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning the handling, treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials. These laws predominantly affect our Infrastructure Solutions business but may impact our other businesses. These environmental laws generally impose liability on present and former owners and operators, transporters and generators of hazardous materials for remediation of contaminated properties. We believe that our business is operating in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental laws, many of which provide for substantial penalties for violations. There can be no assurance that future changes in such laws, interpretations of existing regulations or the discovery of currently unknown problems or conditions will not require substantial additional expenditures. In addition, if we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties, or other liabilities. We may also be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations. Any such additional expenditures or costs that we may incur could hurt our operating results. The loss of a group or several key personnel, either at the corporate or operating level, could adversely affect our business. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and management personnel at our segments. We cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue in their capacity for any particular period of time. We have a severance plan in place that covers certain of our senior leaders; however, this plan can neither guarantee that we will not lose key employees, nor prevent them from competing against us, which is often dependent on state and local employment laws. If we lose a group of key personnel or even one key person at a segment, we may not be able to recruit suitable replacements at comparable salaries or at all, which could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, we do not maintain key man life insurance for members of our management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 