Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company faces a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with its operations. The most significant of these are described below. These risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may adversely affect the Company in the future. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events or developments described below occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. · Failure to Comply With Statutory and Regulatory Requirements Could Result in Loss of Access to U.S. Federal Student Loans and Grants Under Title IV, a Requirement to Pay Fines or Monetary Liabilities or Other Sanctions To maintain Title IV eligibility, each group of schools combined into an OPEID unit must comply with the extensive statutory and regulatory requirements of the Higher Education Act and other laws relating to its financial aid management, educational programs, financial strength, facilities, recruiting practices and various other matters. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the loss or limitation of the eligibility of one or more of the KHE schools to participate in Title IV programs, a requirement to pay fines or to repay Title IV program funds, a denial or refusal by the DOE to consider a school’s application for renewal of its certification to participate in the Title IV programs or for approval to add a new campus or education program, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions. No assurance can be given that the Kaplan schools and programs currently participating in Title IV programs will maintain their Title IV eligibility, accreditation 33 and state authorization in the future or that the DOE might not successfully assert that one or more of such schools or programs have previously failed to comply with Title IV requirements. The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Program Reviews, Audits, Investigations and Other Reviews of KHE Schools Could Result in Findings of Failure to Comply With Statutory and Regulatory Requirements KHE schools are subject to program reviews, audits, investigations and other compliance reviews conducted by various regulatory agencies and auditors, including, among others, the DOE, the DOE’s Office of the Inspector General, accrediting bodies and state and various other agencies, as well as annual audits by an independent certified public accountant of each OPEID unit’s compliance with Title IV statutory and regulatory requirements. These compliance reviews can result in findings of noncompliance with statutory and regulatory requirements that can, in turn, result in proceedings to impose fines, liabilities, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions against the school, including loss or limitation of its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Certain KHE schools are the subject of ongoing compliance reviews and lawsuits related to their compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and may be subject to future compliance reviews. KHE schools also may be subject to complaints and lawsuits by present or former students or employees or other persons related to compliance with statutory, common law and regulatory requirements that, if successful, could result in monetary liabilities or fines or other sanctions. · Reductions in the Amount of Funds Available to Students, Including under Title IV Programs, in KHE Schools, Changes in the Terms on Which Such Funds Are Made Available or Loss or Limitation of Eligibility to Receive Such Funds During the Company’s 2011 fiscal year, funds provided under the student financial aid programs created under Title IV accounted for approximately $1,110 million of the revenues of the schools in KHE. Any legislative, regulatory or other development that has the effect of materially reducing the amount of Title IV financial assistance or other funds available to the students of those schools would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and operations. In addition, any development that has the effect of making the terms on which Title IV financial assistance or other funds are available to students of those schools materially less attractive could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and operations. · Recent Regulatory Changes Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Kaplan’s Business and Operations New regulations went into effect on July 1, 2011, relating to various “program integrity” topics. The topics covered in the new regulations include, but are not limited to, the following: • Revisions to the incentive compensation rule (see separate risk factor discussed below); • Expansion of the notice and approval requirements for adding new academic programs and new reporting and disclosure requirements for academic programs; • Revision and expansion of the types of activities that are deemed a “substantial misrepresentation” and the ability of the DOE to enforce the provisions; • Requirement that states authorize institutions and set forth certain minimum requirements to obtain such authorizations; • Limiting agreements between related institutions; • Defining a “credit hour”; • Administration of ability-to-benefit examinations; • Student attendance requirements; • Proof of high school graduation; • Verification of information included on student aid applications; • Satisfactory academic progress; • Retaking coursework; • Return of Title IV funds; and • Disbursements of Title IV funds. 34 The implementation of these new regulations required Kaplan to change its practices to comply with these requirements and has increased its administrative costs. The changes to its practices or its inability to comply with the final regulations could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and results of operations. · Compliance With Recently Adopted Regulations Regarding Incentive Compensation Can Make It Difficult for Kaplan to Attract Students and Retain Qualified Personnel Under the incentive compensation rule, an institution participating in the Title IV programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV funds if such payment is based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid. On July 1, 2011, new regulations went into effect that amended the incentive compensation rule by reducing the scope of permissible payments under the rule and expanding the scope of payments and employees subject to the rule. The Company cannot predict how the DOE will interpret and enforce the revised incentive compensation rule or the full effect the new rule will have on the results of KHE. KHE modified some of its compensation practices as a result of the revisions to the incentive compensation rule. These changes to compensation arrangements can make it difficult to attract students and to provide adequate incentives to promote superior job performance and retain qualified personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s business and results of operations. · New DOE Rule Regarding Gainful Employment Resulted in Regulatory Changes That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Kaplan’s Business and Operations In June 2011, the DOE issued final regulations that tie an education program’s Title IV eligibility to whether the program leads to gainful employment. The regulations define an education program that leads to gainful employment as one that complies with the following gainful employment metrics as calculated under the complex formulas prescribed in the regulations: (1) the average annual loan payment for program graduates is 12% or less of annual earnings; (2) the average annual loan payment for program graduates is 30% or less of discretionary income (generally defined as annual earnings above 150% of the U.S. Federal poverty level); and (3) the U.S. Federal loan repayment rate must be at least 35% for loans owed by students for attendance in the program regardless of whether they graduated. If a program fails all three of the gainful employment metrics in a single U.S. Federal fiscal year, the DOE requires the institution, among other things, to disclose to current and prospective students the amount by which the program under-performed the metrics and the institution’s plan for program improvement, and to establish a three-day waiting period before students can enroll. Should a program fail to achieve the metrics twice within three years, the Department requires the institution, among other things, to disclose to current and prospective students that they should expect to have difficulty repaying their student loans; that the program is at risk of losing eligibility to receive U.S. Federal financial aid; and that transfer options exist (including providing resources to students to research other educational options and compare program costs). Should a program fail three times within a four-year period, the DOE would terminate the program’s eligibility for U.S. Federal student aid, and the institution would not be able to reestablish the program’s eligibility for at least three years, although the program could continue to operate without student aid. The final rule is scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2012. However, the first final debt measures will not be released until 2013, and a program cannot lose eligibility until 2015. The continuing eligibility of Kaplan’s education programs for Title IV funding may be affected by factors beyond its control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of Kaplan graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the U.S. Federal poverty income level relevant for calculating the discretionary income test, changes in the percentage of former students who are current in repayment of their student loans and other factors. To the extent any of these events occur, Kaplan may need to eliminate or limit enrollments in certain educational programs at some or all of its schools in order to comply with the new regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and operations. · Congressional Examination of For-Profit Education Could Lead to Legislation or Other Governmental Action That May Materially and Adversely Affect Kaplan’s Business Throughout 2010 and 2011, there was increased attention by Congress on the role that for-profit educational institutions play in higher education, including their participation in Title IV programs and U.S. Department of Defense oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Since June 2010, the HELP Committee has held a series of hearings to examine the for-profit education sector. At this time, the Company cannot predict the ultimate impact that the investigation may have on KHE, or the likelihood of or content of any future legislation. 35 Other committees of the Congress have also held hearings into, among other things, the standards and procedures of accrediting agencies, credit hours and program length and the portion of U.S. Federal student financial aid going to for-profit institutions. Several legislators have variously requested the U.S. Government Accountability Office to review and make recommendations regarding, among other things, student recruitment practices; educational quality; student outcomes; the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in Title IV programs; and the percentage of proprietary institutions’ revenue coming from Title IV and other U.S. Federal funding sources. This increased activity may result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting participation in Title IV programs and other governmental actions. In addition, concerns generated by congressional or other activity, or media reports, may adversely affect enrollment in for-profit educational institutions. Kaplan cannot predict the extent to which these activities could result in further investigations, legislation or rulemaking affecting its participation in Title IV programs, other governmental actions and/or actions by state agencies or legislators or by accreditors. If any laws or regulations are adopted that significantly limit Kaplan’s participation in Title IV programs or the amount of student financial aid for which Kaplan’s students are eligible, Kaplan’s results of operations and cash flows would be adversely and materially impacted. · The Kaplan Commitment Has Materially Impacted Operating Results and Is Expected to Continue to Do So In the fourth quarter of 2010, KHE phased in a new program, called the Kaplan Commitment. Under this program students of Kaplan University, Kaplan College and other KHE schools enroll in classes for several weeks and assess whether their educational experience meets their needs and expectations before they incur any significant financial obligation. Kaplan also conducts academic assessments to help determine whether students are likely to be successful in their chosen course of study. Students who choose to withdraw from the program during the risk-free period, and students who do not pass the academic evaluation do not have to pay for the coursework. In general, the risk-free period is approximately four weeks for diploma programs and five weeks for associate’s, bachelor’s and master’s degree programs. The Kaplan Commitment program, along with generally lower demand, has resulted in 37% declines in new enrollments in 2011. Kaplan estimates that without the Kaplan Commitment, this decline would have been approximately 20% in 2011. Kaplan also estimates that revenue for 2011 would have been approximately $63 million higher if the Kaplan Commitment had not been implemented. This program and related initiatives will likely continue to have a significant impact on the future operations of KHE, including student enrollment and retention, tuition revenues, operating income and cash flow. However, Kaplan is not able to estimate whether the Kaplan Commitment will cause student retention patterns to differ from historical levels. The Kaplan Commitment is expected to continue to have a material impact on Kaplan’s operating results. · Student Loan Defaults Could Result in Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs A school may lose its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if student defaults on the repayment of Title IV loans exceed specified rates, referred to as “cohort default rates.” The DOE calculates a cohort default rate for each of KHE’s OPEID numbers. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate exceeds 40% for any single year lose their eligibility to participate in the FFEL and Direct Loan programs effective 30 days after notification from the DOE and for at least two fiscal years, except in the event of a successful adjustment or appeal. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive years lose their Title IV eligibility to participate in FFEL, Direct Loan and U.S. Federal Pell Grant programs effective 30 days after notification from the DOE and for at least two fiscal years, except in the event of a successful adjustment or appeal. The schools in an OPEID number whose cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25% in any one of the three most recent fiscal years for which rates have been issued by the DOE may be placed on provisional certification by the DOE. The enactment in August 2008 of HEOA (which reauthorized the Higher Education Act) changed the methodology that will be used to calculate cohort default rates for future years. Under the revised law, the period of time for which student defaults are tracked and included in the cohort default rate calculation is extended by a year, which is expected to increase the cohort default rates for most institutions. That change became effective with the calculation of institutions’ cohort default rates for the U.S. Federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2009; those rates are expected to be calculated and issued by the DOE in 2012. The DOE will not impose sanctions based on rates calculated under this new methodology until rates for three consecutive years have been calculated, which is expected to occur in 2014. Until that time, the DOE will continue to calculate rates under the old method and impose sanctions based on those rates. The revised law also increases the threshold for ending an institution’s participation in certain Title IV programs from 25% to 30% for three consecutive years, effective for three-year cohort default rates issued beginning in fiscal year 2012. The revised law changes the threshold for placement on provisional certification to 30% for two of the three most recent fiscal years for which the DOE has published official three-year cohort default rates. 36 The two-year cohort default rate for Kaplan University (which comprises 68.1% of KHE’s revenue) for the U.S. Federal fiscal year periods 2009, 2008 and 2007 were 17.3%, 17.2%, and 13.3%, respectively. The cohort default rates for the remaining KHE reporting units for those U.S. Federal fiscal year periods ranged from 9.8% to 23.9%, 5.8% to 25.7%, and 7.8% to 28.7%, respectively. For the 2009 cohort year, no reporting unit had a cohort default rate of 25% or more, and none had two or more years above 25%. Two-year cohort default rates for the 2010 cohort year and three-year cohort default rates for the 2009 cohort year will be issued in final form by the DOE in September 2012. The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of two or more other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs If Title IV Revenues Exceed U.S. Federally-Set Percentage Under regulations referred to as the 90/10 rule, a KHE OPEID unit would lose its eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs for a period of at least two fiscal years if it derives more than 90% of its receipts from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the unit’s first fiscal year that ends after August 14, 2008. Any OPEID reporting unit with receipts from the Title IV programs exceeding 90% for a single fiscal year ending after August 14, 2008, would be placed on provisional certification and may be subject to other enforcement measures. The enactment of the U.S. Federal Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 increased student loan limits and the maximum amount of Pell Grants, which could result in an increase in the percentage of KHE’s receipts from Title IV programs. These increases, and any future increases or changes in the 90/10 calculation formula, make it more difficult for institutions to comply with the 90/10 rule. HEOA has provided temporary relief from the impact of the loan limit increases by treating as non-Title IV revenue any amounts received between July 1, 2008, and June 30, 2011, that are attributable to the increased annual loan limits. Absent relief from the loan limit increases, Kaplan University would have a 90/10 ratio of 82.4% in 2011, and the remaining KHE OPEID numbers would have 90/10 percentages ranging between 74.2% and 91.4%. The loss of Title IV eligibility by either (1) the single OPEID unit that includes Kaplan University or (2) a combination of other OPEID units would have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Failure to Maintain Institutional Accreditation Could Lead to Loss of Ability to Participate in Title IV Programs KHE’s online university and all of its ground campuses are institutionally accredited by one or another of a number of national and regional accreditors recognized by the DOE. Accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE is required for an institution to become and remain eligible to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of accreditation would, among other things, render the affected Kaplan schools and programs ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on its business and operations. · Failure to Maintain Programmatic Accreditation Could Lead to Loss of Ability to Provide Certain Education Programs and Failure to Obtain Programmatic Accreditation May Lead to Declines in Enrollments in Unaccredited Programs. Programmatic accreditation is the process through which specific programs are reviewed and approved by industry- and program-specific accrediting entities. Although programmatic accreditation is not generally necessary for Title IV eligibility, such accreditation may be required to allow students to sit for certain licensure exams or to work in a particular profession or career. Failure to obtain or maintain such programmatic accreditation may require schools to discontinue programs that would not provide appropriate outcomes without that accreditation or may lead to a decline in enrollment in programs due a perceived or real reduction in program value. · Failure to Maintain State Authorizations Could Cause Loss of Ability to Operate and to Participate in Title IV Programs in Some States KHE’s ground campuses and online university are subject to state-level regulation and oversight by state licensing agencies, whose approval is necessary to allow an institution to operate and grant degrees or diplomas in the state. Institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be legally authorized to operate in the state in which the institution is physically located. The loss of such authorization would preclude the campuses or online university from offering postsecondary education and render students ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. Loss of authorization at those state campus locations, or, in states that require it, for Kaplan University online, could have a material adverse effect on KHE’s business and operations. Some states have sought to assert jurisdiction over online education institutions that offer education services to residents in the state or to institutions that advertise or recruit in the state, notwithstanding the lack of a physical location in the state. State regulatory requirements for online education vary among the states, are not well developed in many states, 37 are imprecise or unclear in some states and are subject to change. If KHE is found not to be in compliance with an applicable state regulation and a state seeks to restrict one or more of its business activities within its boundaries, it may not be able to recruit or enroll students in that state and may have to cease providing services and advertising in that state. New regulations went into effect on July 1, 2011, that expand the requirements for an institution to be considered legally authorized in the state in which it is physically located, for Title IV purposes. In some cases, the regulations require states to revise their current requirements and/or to license schools in order for institutions to be deemed legally authorized in those states and, in turn, to participate in the Title IV programs. If the states do not amend their requirements where necessary and if schools do not receive approvals where necessary that comply with these new requirements, then the institution could be deemed to lack the state authorization necessary to participate in the Title IV programs. In addition, new DOE rules currently under judicial review may require institutions offering postsecondary education to students through distance education in a state in which the institution is not physically located or in which it is otherwise subject to state jurisdiction, as determined by the state, to meet any state requirements for it to legally offer postsecondary distance education in that state. The regulations require an institution to document upon request by the DOE that it has the applicable state approval. As a result, some of KHE’s schools and distance education programs may be required to obtain additional or revised state authorizations. If KHE is unable to obtain the required approvals, its students in the affected schools or programs may be unable to receive Title IV funds, which could have a material adverse effect on its business and operations. · Failure to Correctly Calculate or Timely Return Title IV Funds for Students Who Withdraw Prior to Completing Programs Could Result in a Requirement to Post a Letter of Credit or Other Sanctions DOE regulations require schools participating in Title IV programs to calculate correctly and return on a timely basis unearned Title IV funds disbursed to students who withdraw from a program of study prior to completion. These funds must be returned in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. Under DOE regulations, failure to make timely returns of Title IV program funds for 5% or more of students sampled in a school’s annual compliance audit in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years could result in a requirement that the school post a letter of credit in an amount equal to 25% of its prior year-returns of Title IV program funds. If unearned funds are not properly calculated and returned in a timely manner, an institution is also subject to monetary liabilities, fines or other sanctions. · Failure to Demonstrate Financial Responsibility Could Result in a Requirement to Submit Letters of Credit to the DOE, Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs or Other Sanctions An institution participating in the Title IV programs must comply with certain measures of financial responsibility under the Higher Education Act and under DOE regulations. Among other things, the applicable regulations require an institution to achieve a composite score of at least 1.5, as calculated under DOE regulations, based on data in annual financial statements submitted to the DOE. If an institution fails to achieve a composite score of 1.5 or fails to comply with other financial responsibility standards, the DOE may place conditions on the institution’s participation in the Title IV programs and may require the institution to submit to the DOE a letter of credit in an amount of at least 10% to 50% of the institution’s annual Title IV participation for its most recent fiscal year. The DOE has measured the compliance of KHE schools, based on the composite score of the division. If one or more of the institutions in KHE fail to meet the composite score standard or any of the other financial responsibility standards, those institutions may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of the DOE and possibly may be subject to other sanctions, including limitation or termination of their participation in Title IV programs. A requirement to post a letter of credit or the imposition of any one or more other sanctions by the DOE could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s results of operations. · Failure to Demonstrate Administrative Capability Could Result in Loss of Eligibility to Participate in Title IV Programs or Other Sanctions DOE regulations specify extensive criteria that an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the required “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV programs. These criteria include, but are not limited to, requirements relating to the institution’s compliance with all applicable Title IV requirements; the institution’s administration of Title IV programs; the institution’s compliance with certain reporting, disclosure and record-keeping obligations; and the institution’s ability to maintain cohort default rates below prescribed thresholds. Failure to comply with these criteria could result in the loss or limitation of the eligibility of one or more of the schools in KHE to participate in the Title IV programs, a requirement to pay fines or to repay Title IV program funds, a denial or refusal by the DOE to consider a school’s application for renewal of its certification to participate in the Title IV programs, civil or criminal penalties or other 38 sanctions. Any one or more of these actions by the DOE could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s results of operations. · Failure to Obtain Regulatory Approval of Transactions Involving a Change of Control May Result in Loss of Ability to Operate Schools or to Participate in U.S. Federal Student Financial Aid Programs. If one or more of KHE’s schools experiences a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies, accrediting agencies or the DOE, the schools governed by such agencies must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Failure of any of KHE’s schools to reestablish its state authorization, accreditation or DOE certification following a change of control as defined by the applicable agency could result in a suspension of operating authority or suspension or loss of U.S. Federal student financial aid funding, which could have a material adverse effect on KHE’s student population and revenue. · Actions of Other Postsecondary Education Institutions and Related Media Coverage May Negatively Influence the Regulatory Environment and Kaplan’s Reputation The HELP Committee hearings, along with other recent investigations and lawsuits, have included allegations of, among other things, deceptive trade practices, false claims against the U.S. and noncompliance with state and DOE regulations. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage. Allegations against the overall student lending and postsecondary education sectors may impact general public perceptions of private-sector educational institutions, including Kaplan, in a negative manner. Adverse media coverage regarding other educational institutions or regarding Kaplan directly could damage its reputation, reduce student demand for Kaplan programs, adversely impact its revenues and operating profit or result in increased regulatory scrutiny. · Changes in the Extent to Which Standardized Tests Are Used in the Admissions Process by Colleges or Graduate Schools Could Reduce Demand for KTP Offerings A substantial portion of Kaplan’s revenue is generated by KTP. The source of this income is fees charged for courses that prepare students for a broad range of admissions examinations that are required for admission to colleges and graduate schools. Historically, colleges and graduate schools have required standardized tests as part of the admissions process. There has been some movement away from this historical reliance on standardized admissions tests among a small number of colleges that have adopted “test-optional” admissions policies. Any significant reduction in the use of standardized tests in the college or graduate school admissions process could have an adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Changes in the Extent to Which Licensing and Proficiency Examinations Are Used to Qualify Individuals to Pursue Certain Careers Could Reduce Demand for Kaplan Offerings A substantial portion of PACE and Kaplan International’s revenue comes from preparing individuals for licensing or technical proficiency examinations in various fields. Any significant relaxation or elimination of licensing or technical proficiency requirements in those fields served by PACE and Kaplan International’s businesses could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results. · System Disruptions and Security Threats to the Company’s Technology Infrastructure Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on its Businesses Kaplan’s reputation and ability to attract and retain students is highly dependent on the performance and reliability of its information technology platforms with respect to its online and campus-based education offerings. Kaplan’s delivery of these programs could be negatively affected due to events beyond its control, including natural disasters and network and telecommunications failures. Any such computer system error or failure could result in a significant outage that materially disrupts Kaplan’s online and on-ground operations. The Company’s computer networks may also be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security threats. The Company has, and will continue to, expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, but its systems may still be vulnerable to these threats. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions or malfunctions in operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. § Failure to Successfully Assimilate Acquired Businesses The Company’s Kaplan subsidiary has historically been an active acquirer of businesses that provide educational services. Consistent with this historical trend, during 2011 Kaplan completed five acquisitions. Acquisitions involve various inherent risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in efficiently integrating the service offerings, accounting and other 39 administrative systems of an acquired business; the challenges of assimilating and retaining key personnel; the consequences of diverting the attention of senior management from existing operations; the possibility that an acquired business does not meet or exceed the financial projections that supported the purchase price; and the possible failure of the due diligence process to identify significant business risks or undisclosed liabilities associated with the acquired business. A failure to effectively manage growth and integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Difficulties of Managing Foreign Operations Kaplan has operations and investments in a growing number of foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico, the U.K., Ireland, France, Israel, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, India and China. Operating in foreign countries presents a number of inherent risks, including the difficulties of complying with unfamiliar laws and regulations, effectively managing and staffing foreign operations, successfully navigating local customs and practices, preparing for potential political and economic instability and adapting to currency exchange rate fluctuations. Failure to effectively manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on Kaplan’s operating results. · Changes in International Regulatory and Physical Environments Could Negatively Affect International Student Enrollments A substantial portion of Kaplan International’s revenue comes from programs that prepare international students to study and travel to English-speaking countries, principally the U.S., the U.K., Australia and Singapore. Kaplan International’s ability to enroll students in these programs is directly dependent on its ability to comply with complex regulatory environments. A recent example of this is the immigration regulatory changes in the U.K., which impose recruitment quotas and stringent progress criteria as requirements for the maintenance of certain overseas student recruitment licenses. Any significant changes to the regulatory environment or a natural disaster or pandemic in either the students’ countries of origin or the countries to which they desire to travel or study could negatively affect Kaplan’s ability to attract and retain such students, which could negatively impact Kaplan’s operating results. · Changing Preferences of Readers or Viewers Away From Traditional Media Outlets The rates that the Company’s print publishing and television broadcasting businesses can charge for advertising are directly related to the number of readers and viewers of its publications and broadcasts. There is tremendous competition for readers and viewers from other media. The Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses will be adversely affected to the extent that individuals decide to obtain news, entertainment, classified listings and local shopping information from Internet-based or other media to the exclusion of the Company’s digital media offerings, print publications and broadcasts. · Changing Perceptions About the Effectiveness of Publishing and Television Broadcasting in Delivering Advertising Historically, newspaper publishing and television broadcasting have been viewed as cost-effective methods of delivering various forms of advertising. There can be no guarantee that this historical perception will guide future decisions by advertisers. To the extent that advertisers shift advertising expenditures to other media outlets, the profitability of the Company’s publishing and television broadcasting businesses will suffer. · Increased Competition Resulting From Technological Innovations in News, Information and Video Programming Distribution Systems The development of DBS systems has significantly increased the competition faced by the Company’s cable television systems. In addition, the continuing growth and technological expansion of Internet-based services has increased competitive pressure on the Company’s media businesses. The development and deployment of new technologies have the potential to negatively and dramatically affect the Company’s businesses in ways that cannot now be reliably predicted and that may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. · Changes in the Nature and Extent of Government Regulations in the Case of Television Broadcasting, Cable Television and VoIP Services The Company’s television broadcasting and cable television businesses operate in highly regulated environments. The Company’s VoIP services business also is subject to a growing degree of regulation. Complying with applicable regulations has significantly increased, and may continue to increase, the costs and has reduced the revenues of these businesses. Changes in regulations have the potential to further negatively impact those businesses, not only by increasing compliance costs and reducing revenues through restrictions on certain types of advertising, limitations on pricing flexibility or other means, but also by possibly creating more favorable regulatory environments for the providers of 40 competing services. More generally, all of the Company’s businesses could have their profitability or their competitive positions adversely affected by significant changes in applicable regulations. · Potential Liability for Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Businesses The Company periodically receives claims from third parties alleging that the Company’s businesses infringe the intellectual property rights of others. It is likely that the Company will continue to be subject to similar claims, particularly as they relate to its media and cable businesses. For example, providers of services similar to those offered by Cable ONE have been the target of patent infringement claims from time to time, relating to such matters as cable system architecture, electronic program guides, cable modem technology and VoIP services. Other parts of the Company’s business could also be subject to such claims. Addressing intellectual product claims is a time-consuming and expensive endeavor, regardless of the merits of the claims. In order to resolve such a claim, the Company could determine the need to change its method of doing business, enter into a licensing agreement or incur substantial monetary liability. It is also possible that one of the Company’s businesses could be enjoined from using the intellectual property at issue, causing it to significantly alter its operations. Although the Company cannot predict the impact at this time, if any such claims are successful, the outcome would likely affect the businesses utilizing the intellectual property at issue and could have a material adverse effect on those businesses’ operating results or prospects. · Failure to Comply With Privacy Laws or Regulations Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business Various federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. This area of the law is evolving and interpretations of applicable laws and regulations differ. Legislative activity in the privacy area may result in new laws that are relevant to the Company’s operations, for example, use of consumer data for marketing or advertising. Claims of failure to comply with the Company’s privacy policies or applicable laws or regulations could form the basis of governmental or private party actions against the Company. Such claims and actions may cause damage to the Company’s reputation and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. · Changes in the Cost or Availability of Raw Materials, Particularly Newsprint The Company’s newspaper publishing businesses collectively spend significant amounts each year on newsprint. Increases in the cost of newsprint or significant disruptions in the supply of newsprint could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company’s newspaper publishing businesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 