Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are significantly affected by weather. Weather has a significant effect on our utility operations, including impacting customer demand and operating revenues. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce operating revenues. In addition, below normal precipitation (particularly winter snowpack) and other streamflow conditions can negatively impact our electric resource costs by decreasing hydroelectric generation capability and increasing our reliance on market purchases and thermal generation. Regional precipitation and snowpack conditions typically have a significant effect on the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, high demand for electricity will generally increase both the quantity needed and price of fuel for generation and wholesale market prices. We are subject to commodity price risk. Our utility activities are subject to electric and natural gas commodity price risk. In general, price risk is driven by fluctuation in the market price of the commodity needed, held or traded. Adverse changes in wholesale energy prices can affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations, as well as the market value of derivative assets and liabilities. Electricity prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • demand for electricity, • the number of market participants and the willingness of market participants to trade, • adequacy of generating reserve margins, • scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, • availability of streamflows for hydroelectric generation, • price and availability of fuel for thermal generating plants, and • disruptions of or constraints on transmission facilities. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • adequacy of North American production, • level of imports, • inventory levels and regional accessibility, • demand for natural gas, including natural gas as fuel for electric generation, • the number of market participants and the willingness of market participants to trade, • global energy markets, including oil or other natural gas substitutes, and • availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region. Any combination of these factors that results in a shortage of energy generally causes the market price to move upward. Increasing energy commodity prices have a significant effect on our liquidity. We have regulatory mechanisms in place that provide for the deferral and recovery of the majority of utility power and natural gas supply costs. However, if prices increase above the level currently recovered in retail rates during periods when we must purchase power and natural gas for generation and retail natural gas loads, power and natural gas deferral balances will increase. This will negatively affect our operating cash flow and liquidity until such costs are recovered from customers. 14 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Deferred power and natural gas costs are subject to regulatory review; costs higher than those recovered in base rates reduce cash flows, and it may take several years for us to recover deferred costs. We defer income statement recognition of certain power and natural gas costs that are higher than what is currently recovered from our retail customers as authorized by regulators. These excess power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and for the potential of disallowance by state regulators. Despite the opportunity to eventually recover a substantial portion of power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows are negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers. Factors that could cause costs to exceed the levels recovered from customers include, but are not limited to, higher prices in wholesale markets when we buy energy or an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets. Factors beyond our control that could result in an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets include, but are not limited to: • increases in demand (either due to weather or customer growth), • low availability of hydroelectric resources, • outages at generating facilities, and • failure of third parties to deliver on energy or capacity contracts. We are subject to the risk that regulators will not grant timely or sufficient recovery of our costs and not provide a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders. We regularly review the need for electric and natural gas rate changes in each state in which we provide service. We will continue to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our costs and provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. If regulators were to grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows. Relicensing our hydroelectric facilities located on the Spokane River at a cost-effective level with reasonable terms and conditions may not be possible. We have six hydroelectric plants on the Spokane River, and five of these are under one FERC license. Collectively, these five plants are referred to as the Spokane River Project. Since we did not receive new license orders prior to the August 1, 2007 expiration of the current license, an annual license was issued, in effect extending the current license and its conditions until August 1, 2008. The relicensing process for the Spokane River Project is a public regulatory process that involves complex natural resource, recreation and cultural issues. We cannot predict the terms and conditions that will ultimately be imposed by the FERC. The costs of these terms and conditions could have a negative effect on our operating expenses and require significant utility capital expenditures reducing net income and cash flows. We also cannot predict whether the FERC will ultimately issue new licenses or whether we will be willing to meet the licensing requirements to continue to operate the Spokane River Project. We plan to request regulatory approval to recover licensing costs. However, we cannot be certain that these costs will be recovered through the rate making process. We are subject to credit risk. Credit risk relates to the losses that we would incur as a result of non-performance of contractual obligations by counterparties to deliver energy or make financial settlements. We often extend credit to counterparties and customers, and we are exposed to the risk of not being able to collect amounts owed to us. Changes in market prices may dramatically alter the size of credit risk with counterparties, even when we establish conservative credit limits. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances: • relating directly to the counterparty, • caused by market price changes, and • relating to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, we may be required to honor the underlying commitment or to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices. 15 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Credit risk also involves the exposure that counterparties perceive related to our ability to perform deliveries and settlement under physical and financial energy contracts. These counterparties may seek assurances of performance in the form of letters of credit, prepayment, or cash deposits. Credit exposure can change significantly in periods of price volatility. As a result, sudden and significant demands may be made against our credit facilities and cash. Our resource management and net energy load-serving activities may cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations. Although we engage in active hedging and resource optimization practices, we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our energy resource assets or our forecasted net positions for various time horizons, and our hedging procedures may not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale. To reduce financial and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We utilize physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we do not cover the entire exposure of our forecasted net positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual loads and resources typically vary from forecasts, sometimes to a significant degree, which requires additional transactions or dispatch decisions that impact cash flows. Risk management procedures may not prevent losses. We have a risk management policy and control procedures designed to measure and mitigate energy market risks. However, our risk management policy and control procedures cannot prevent material losses in all possible situations or from all potential causes. As a result, there can be no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that could negatively affect our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. We rely on access to credit from banks for short-term borrowings. We need to maintain access to adequate levels of credit with banks for short-term liquidity. We have a $320 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in April 2011. We cannot predict whether we will have access to credit beyond the expiration date. The line of credit contains customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. We are dependent on our ability to access long-term capital markets. We need to access long-term capital markets to finance capital expenditures, repay maturing long-term debt and obtain additional working capital from time to time. Our ability to access capital on reasonable terms is subject to numerous factors and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain capital on reasonable terms, it may limit or prohibit our ability to finance capital expenditures and repay maturing long-term debt. Our liquidity needs could exceed our short-term credit availability and lead to defaults on various financing arrangements. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. Downgrades in our credit ratings could limit our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to acquire energy resources. We recently restored an overall corporate investment grade credit rating with the two major credit rating agencies. Our credit ratings were downgraded during the fourth quarter of 2001, which resulted in an overall corporate credit rating that was below investment grade. The downgrades were due to liquidity concerns primarily related to the significant amount of purchased power and natural gas costs that we incurred in our utility operations. This downgrade increased our debt service costs. Any future downgrades could limit our ability to access capital markets or obtain other financing on reasonable terms. In addition, future downgrades could require us to provide letters of credit and/or collateral to lenders and counterparties. An increase in interest rates could negatively affect our future results of operations and cash flows. We expect utility capital expenditures to be $200 million for 2008, and over $200 million in each of 2009 and 2010. In addition to ongoing needs for our utility distribution system, significant projects include the continued 16 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION enhancement of our transmission system and upgrades to generating facilities. We have $318 million of long-term debt maturities in 2008. Our forecasts indicate that we will issue new securities to fund a significant portion of these requirements. In 2004, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in market fixed interest rates for $125 million of forecasted debt issuances in 2008. We also have $83.7 million of Pollution Control Bonds that are subject to remarketing on December 30, 2008. These bonds are puttable at the option of the security holders on that date. If the bonds cannot be successfully remarketed on that date, we will be required to purchase the outstanding bonds. In addition, we have $25 million of Secured Medium-Term Notes with a maturity date of June 2028 that are puttable at the option of the security holders in June 2008. Rising interest rates could increase future debt service costs and decrease operating cash flows to the extent we issue new securities to fund these obligations. We are subject to various operational and event risks that are common to the utility industry. Our utility operations are subject to operational and event risks that include: • blackouts or disruptions to transmission or transportation systems, • forced outages at generating plants, • fuel quality and availability, • disruptions to our information systems and other administrative resources required for normal operations, and • natural disasters and terrorism threats that can cause physical damage to our property, requiring repairs to restore utility service. We are currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings, and we are named in multiple lawsuits related to our participation in western energy markets as disclosed in “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Through our utility operations and the prior operations of Avista Energy, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints with respect to energy markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in 2000 and 2001. This allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to: • refund proceedings in California and the Pacific Northwest, • market conduct investigations by the FERC, and • complaints filed by various parties related to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. As a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from us, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information. Any potential refunds or obligations arising from western energy market issues (or any other contingent matters) were retained by Avista Energy. We are subject to the risk of the potential effects from legislation or administrative rulemaking. We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules published by government agencies, such as the FERC, NERC and the EPA. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be affected by long-term global climate changes. Rising concerns about long-term global climate changes could have a significant effect on our business. Changing temperatures and precipitation, including snowpack conditions, affect the availability and timing of hydroelectric generation capacity. Changing temperatures could also increase or decrease customer demand. We continue to monitor legislative developments at both the state and national level for the potential of further restrictions on sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, as well as other greenhouse gas and mercury emissions. Our operations could be affected by changes in laws and regulations intended to mitigate the risk of global climate changes, including restrictions on the operation of our power generation resources. Environmental laws and regulations may have the effect of: • increasing the costs of generating plants, • increasing the lead time for the construction of new generating plants, 17 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION • requiring modification of our existing generating plants, • requiring existing generating plants to be curtailed or shut down, • increasing the risk of delay on construction projects, • reducing the amount of energy available from our generating plants, and • restricting the types of generating plants that can be built. As such, compliance with such environmental laws and regulations could result in increases to capital expenditures and operating expenses. We have contingent liabilities, as disclosed in “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” and cannot predict the outcome of these matters. We have multiple matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the rate making process. See “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters. Lake Coeur d’Alene Matter We are liable for compensation (the amount is not yet determined) for the use of portions of the bed and banks of Lake Coeur d’Alene and the St. Joe River. These beds and banks were determined to be the property of the Coeur d’Alene Tribe of Idaho. We are in discussions with the Tribe concerning past and future compensation (which may include interest) for use of the portions of the beds and banks of the lake that are owned by the Tribe. If the parties cannot agree on the amount of compensation, the matter could result in litigation. Other Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. Environmental issues include, but are not limited to, contamination of certain parcels of land and waters that: • we currently own, • we have formerly owned or have used as a customer, • are adjacent to our property, • are located on the Spokane River, or • are downstream of our hydroelectric facilities and the resulting impact on free ranging fish. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION 