Item 1A. Risk Factors There are several significant risk factors that affect the financial performance of financial institutions in general and the Company in particular. This Report, as well as the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the Company’s 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference, include comments relating to those factors. Presented below is a summary of risk factors that are especially significant to the Company. While these factors apply to most financial institutions, the commentary which follows addresses only how those factors are significant to the Company. · Interest rate policies of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System. The Company’s results of operations depend significantly on the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can affect profitability, stockholders’ equity, the carrying value and average life of assets, the demand for loans, the collectibility of loans and investment securities, and the flow and mix of deposits. The yield curve, which was inverted for much of the past few years, moved upward in 2008. Generally, an inverted yield curve causes the profitability of the Company to diminish. Improvement in net interest margin will continue to be difficult to achieve until the slope of the yield curve is upward for an extended period of time. · Changes in the local real estate market. A significant part of the Company’s loan portfolio ($1.3 billion) is concentrated in commercial, multi-family, residential and construction loans secured by real estate located primarily in eastern Massachusetts. Decline in property values in 2008 and 2007 could cause the Company to experience a higher level of loan losses in coming years. · Changes in the local, regional and national economy. In addition to real estate loans, the Company’s loan portfolio includes $597 million of indirect automobile loans, $147 million of loans to finance equipment to small businesses and $179 million of other commercial loans underwritten on the basis of the cash flows produced by the borrower’s business, assets pledged as collateral and personal guarantees. Recent weakness in the economy will likely affect the ability of borrowers to repay loans and result in an increase in loan losses in 2009 and possibly thereafter. · Acquisitions and other growth initiatives. On January 7, 2005, the Company acquired Mystic and, on April 13, 2006, the Company increased its ownership interest in Eastern from approximately 28% to 87%. Additionally, in 2006, the Company recruited experienced loan officers to expand commercial business lending. The Company continues to seek additional acquisitions and to expand through the offering of expanded services and the opening of new branches. While acquisitions and other growth activities are important to the long-term success of the Company, there are risks associated with such initiatives. The initiatives often require investments and expenditures that can have a negative effect on operating results in the short-term and cause significant adverse consequences if the initiatives are not executed satisfactorily. · Competition for loans and deposits. The Company faces significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions both within and beyond its local market place. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do and may offer products and services that we do not, or cannot, provide. Many competitors are also willing to offer loans at lower rates or deposits at higher rates than the Company is offering. To compete with the pricing offered by competitors often results in lower profitability for the Company. · Litigation risk. In the normal course of business, the Company may become involved in litigation, the outcome of which may have a significant adverse effect on its financial condition and profitability. If the Company’s subsidiary, Brookline Bank, is not successful in defending itself against a putative class action complaint initiated in February 2007, the resulting payments for damages, attorneys’ fees, litigation expenses and costs could be material. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” which appears elsewhere herein, for further information regarding the status of existing litigation. · Legislative and regulatory changes. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relates to, among other things, assessment and monitoring of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, has resulted in 22 Table of Contents substantial added costs for the Company. The requirements of this Act are especially burdensome to an entity such as the Company that has been subjected to comprehensive regulatory examination and supervision for many years. The Company has also devoted important resources to meet new regulatory requirements in areas such as domestic security and customer privacy. Continuation of the frequency and complexity of legislative and regulatory changes will place further pressure on the Company’s overall profitability. · Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communication with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. · Changes in technology. The provision of financial products and services is highly dependent on technology. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and, therefore, on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 