ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Expanding upon the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to our Business Economic Conditions Our results are dependent on general economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada, our principal markets. Adverse economic conditions negatively impacted our operations in 2008 and 2009, and necessitated significant actions to mitigate their impact, including reductions in our rental fleet in response to declining demand, and reductions in our workforce. While economic conditions in 2010 and the outlook for 2011 have improved, uncertainty still remains as to the strength of the current recovery. Consumer confidence and spending levels have also improved in 2010; however, there is no assurance that these trends will continue or that ongoing governmental stimulus initiative will be effective. Favorable economic trends in the United States, our principal market, could also be adversely affected by events outside the United States. These include the sovereign credit issues in certain countries in the European Union, which could affect the relative volatility of global credit markets generally, and the continuing significant political unrest in the Middle East, which could cause prices for petroleum products, including gasoline, to rise and adversely affect both broader economic conditions and consumer discretionary spending patterns. If economic conditions in the United States deteriorate based on these or other factors, spending on leisure travel could also decline, with consequent negative effects on our results of operations and prospects. Adverse economic conditions also affect our customers and franchisees, and some of our franchisees have experienced financial challenges. These circumstances result in reduced fee revenue to the Company and a potential for increased bad debt exposure. Depending on the continued strength of the economy, we may lose customers or our franchisees may become unable to meet their payment obligations to us. Exposure to Used Vehicle Market Conditions We retained the residual value risk on approximately 98% of our vehicles at December 31, 2010 and expect that risk vehicles will account for approximately 95% of our fleet in 2011. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are highly dependent on used vehicle prices at the time of sale, requiring us to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicles at the time of disposal, as well as the general used vehicle auction market. The costs of our risk vehicles may be materially affected by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one to two year old used cars. The strength of the used car market and its impact on residual values is driven by a number of factors, including macroeconomic factors impacting supply and demand for used vehicles, the volume of new vehicles produced by automotive manufacturers and the applicable level of discounts or incentives offered to stimulate sales, the availability of consumer credit to purchase new or used vehicles, and finally, changes in gasoline prices that may impact consumer demand for certain types of vehicles. Additionally, residual values fluctuate seasonally with the lowest values typically in the fourth quarter. While the market has experienced favorable trends during 2010, the strength and duration of continued favorability in 2011 remains uncertain. In the event of renewed pricing pressure in the used vehicle market, or if recent events in the Middle East result in significant increases in gasoline prices in the near term, residual values could decrease and our results could be materially and adversely affected. Operating more risk vehicles could also have a negative impact on the vehicle utilization and profitability if we are unable or elect not to sell those vehicles in periods of weaker rental demand. - 19 - Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry In addition to local and regional vehicle rental companies, the vehicle rental industry primarily consists of eight major brands, all of which compete intensely for rental customers based on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition, requiring companies to be highly competitive in pricing in order to attract consumers. In addition to consumer demand, pricing in the industry is significantly impacted by the size of the rental fleets and the supply of vehicles available to consumers in the market. While we have achieved improvements in our pricing as part of our strategic focus on return on assets in addition to the overall fleeting actions taken by the industry to balance supply with demand, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to realize improved pricing or whether our attempts to do so will adversely affect transaction days. A significant increase in the supply of rental vehicles available in the market due to fleet actions taken by our competitors, or actions by our competitors to significantly reduce their prices in order to increase market share or utilization (as was the case during the severe U.S. weather conditions in the fourth quarter of 2010) could negatively affect our pricing and other operating plans in material ways and adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Dependence on Domestic Automotive Manufacturers The domestic automotive industry was materially adversely affected by the recessionary conditions in 2008 and 2009, with two of the three manufacturers restructuring their operations under U.S. bankruptcy laws. We remain highly dependent on the domestic automotive manufacturers with approximately 83% of our 2011 orders attributable to Ford, Chrysler and General Motors. It is uncertain whether actions these companies have taken will be sufficient to withstand economic pressures on the domestic automotive manufacturers. We have exposure to these manufacturers in three primary areas: their ability to manufacture and deliver vehicles to us in a timely manner and at a competitive price for use in our operations; the level of residual values of their vehicles in the overall used vehicle market, which could be adversely impacted by negative public perception regarding their products or financial prospects and in turn affect our vehicle depreciation costs and collateral requirements; and their ability to meet financial obligations to us for Residual Value Programs and other purchase-related incentives. If any of these companies experience significant financial difficulties and fails to meet its financial or supply obligations to us, our results, financial position, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Air Travel Approximately 90% of our rental revenues are attributable to airport locations and airport arriving customers. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, airline restructuring through bankruptcy, and challenging economic conditions have caused airlines to reduce flight schedules which could adversely impact the number of airline passengers. The airline industry has also faced considerable challenges in light of global economic conditions, severe weather conditions and competitive industry conditions. A significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results, particularly if it occurs during our peak rental season. Dependence on Third-Party Internet Sales The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2010 and 2009, we received 79% and 78% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, respectively, with 46% in both years coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. - 20 - The remaining portion of non-tour reservations derived from the Internet were provided by third-party sites with two third-party sites each providing approximately 11% of non-tour reservations and the remainder coming from various smaller sites. Future changes in the way travel-related services are marketed and sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third-party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Texas represented approximately 60% of our total rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. The severe decline in consumer spending in recent periods materially adversely affected leisure travel and could be expected to do so again in the foreseeable future. Reductions in leisure travel resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other factors could also have a material adverse impact on our results if consumer spending does not rebound to more favorable levels. Fuel Costs Prices for petroleum-based products, including gasoline, have experienced significant volatility in recent periods and affected automotive travel patterns in material ways. A variety of factors, including the current economic environment, the continuing significant political unrest in the Middle East and geopolitical unrest in oil-producing nations, could cause further price volatility. Limitations in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, either by directly discouraging customers from renting cars, causing a decline in airline passenger traffic, or increasing our operating costs, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers. Vehicle Financing Considerations The rental car industry is capital intensive, and we depend on access to the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset-backed medium-term notes and variable funding note programs. We expect to have substantial debt and debt service requirements in the foreseeable future. Based on our completion in 2010 of $950 million in new asset-backed financing and a CAD$150 million facility, we believe conditions in the asset-backed financing markets have improved significantly, but we cannot assure you that these conditions will be sustained if the credit markets experience disruptions or volatility as the economy continues to recover from the recent financial crisis. Asset-backed financing facilities require varying levels of collateral enhancement, which we provide through a combination of vehicles, cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility. The amount of enhancement required under our Series 2010 notes increased significantly compared to that required under our medium-term notes, and accordingly, the Company expects that it will be required to provide higher amounts of cash and letters of credit in future periods as those medium-term notes mature, thus impacting the availability of liquidity for other purposes. The Company’s strategy is to maintain a predominately risk fleet, with risk vehicles comprising approximately 98% of our vehicle inventory as of December 31, 2010. If residual values of our risk vehicles decline significantly or we experience cumulative losses on the disposition of risk vehicles exceeding a specified percentage of the aggregate value of our fleet, we could be required to increase the monthly depreciation payments under our asset-backed medium-term notes during the remaining life of the vehicles, increase the level of collateral enhancement, or both. Such payments or increase in collateral enhancement would reduce our liquidity available for other purposes. - 21 - Event of Bankruptcy with Respect to One or More Monolines As of December 31, 2010, our obligations under our asset-backed medium-term notes total $1.0 billion in principal amount and are supported by note guaranty insurance policies issued by Ambac Assurance Corporation (“AMBAC”) and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company (“FGIC”), both of which have been facing significant financial challenges. These Monolines have undertaken significant restructuring actions to meet these challenges, but the financial guaranty industry as a whole continues to face substantial pressures. An event of bankruptcy with respect to either of these Monolines could trigger an amortization of our obligations under the affected medium-term notes, which would require a more rapid repayment (or refinancing) of those notes. During 2010, we added $950 million of fleet financing capacity, of which $750 million is intended to provide a funding source for future debt maturities, including any future rapid amortization events that would occur with respect to AMBAC or FGIC. If both series of Monoline-supported medium-term notes were to undergo amortization concurrently (e.g., due to simultaneous rapid amortizations, or rapid amortization under one series occurring during another series’ scheduled amortization period), we believe we would need approximately $200 million of additional fleet financing to retire the affected notes while maintaining peak summer fleet levels in 2011. If we were unable to access the asset-backed financing markets in a timely manner, we believe that we would be able to meet our repayment obligations using our existing available fleet financing capacity and cash on hand, although our ability to finance peak fleet levels during the second and third quarters of 2011 could be impaired. A reduction in fleet levels during the peak season could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. In order to minimize the financial impact of a reduced fleet, we would likely need to extend further the holding period of our vehicles or take other actions, such as further reductions of our operations and workforce. FGIC is the Monoline that has provided financial insurance with respect to our Series 2007-1 notes. On October 25, 2010, FGIC indicated that it had not received sufficient participation in its offer to exchange certain residential mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed securities insured by it, and that, consequently, FGIC had not satisfied the conditions for successfully effectuating its surplus restoration plan as required by the New York State Insurance Department (“NYID”). On December 2, 2010, holders of securities guaranteed by FGIC announced that they had formed a committee of policyholders to negotiate a proposed restructuring plan, with the goal of reinstating FGIC’s ability to satisfy policyholder claims in 2011. As of February 28, 2011, a restructuring has not yet been completed, and the NYID has taken no further public action with respect to FGIC. The NYID may at any time seek an order of rehabilitation or liquidation of FGIC, which could result, immediately or after a period of time, in an event of bankruptcy with respect to FGIC under the terms of the Series 2007-1 notes, depending on the circumstances. Additionally, we have received correspondence from certain entities asserting their beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the Series 2007-1 notes and contending that an amortization event occurred under the related indenture as a result of, among other things, the NYID order, dated November 24, 2009, suspending payments by FGIC under its policies pending the removal of FGIC’s capital impairment. We believe this assertion is completely without merit and, in our capacity as master servicer, we have so directed the trustee. There is, however, no assurance that these entities will not pursue their claim seeking to establish that the notes are currently subject to a rapid amortization event, which, if successful, could have the consequences described above. AMBAC is the Monoline providing financial insurance with respect to our Series 2006-1 notes. AMBAC and its parent company have been subject to or undertaken several restructuring actions, including the filing of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy by the parent company on November 8, 2010. In March 2010, AMBAC was required to establish a segregated account of policies by the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Wisconsin (the “OCIW”), although it has been continuing operations and paying claims in the ordinary course on policy obligations that were not included in that account. Our Series 2006-1 notes were not included in the segregated account, although there is no assurance that the OCIW will not take further action with respect to the instruments not included in the segregated account. Any such action could result in a rapid amortization under the notes. The Series 2006-1 notes began scheduled amortization in December of 2010, and as of February 28, 2011, $300 million in principal amount of these notes has been repaid, with the remaining amount due in three equal installments through May 2011. Accordingly, any future rapid amortization would generally overlap with the scheduled amortization period for these notes, for which we have completed replacement financing. - 22 - Restrictions and Restrictive Covenants Certain of our vehicle financing and credit facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: · dispose of assets; · incur additional indebtedness; · incur guarantee obligations; · prepay other indebtedness; · pay dividends or make share repurchases; · create liens on assets; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · make investments, loans, advances or capital expenditures; · make acquisitions; · engage in mergers or consolidations; · change the business conducted by us; and · engage in certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the recent amendments to our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (hereinafter defined) and our variable funding note programs, we are subject to a maximum leverage ratio of 2.25 to 1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00 to 1.00. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants will depend on our financial and operating performance, and a violation of any of them could result in an event of default under these facilities, entitling the relevant lenders to exercise remedies against us, such as acceleration of the maturity of the relevant indebtedness. While a default is continuing under our Revolving Credit Facility (hereinafter defined), we would be prohibited from further borrowings and issuances of letters of credit, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A default or event of default under one of our debt agreements may also result in a default or event of default under other debt agreements, with similar adverse consequences to us. There can be no assurance that the relevant lenders would waive any such violation or that a waiver or replacement financing would be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In the absence of a waiver or the availability of replacement financing, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are also subject to operational limitations under the terms of our asset-backed financing programs, including percentage limitations on the number of vehicles purchased from specified manufacturers and on the number of Program Vehicles in the fleet. These may prevent us from making opportunistic vehicle purchases in order to obtain cost savings that might otherwise be available through a manufacturer subject to the limitations. These limitations could also impact our targeted fleet mix in ways that adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Like-Kind Exchange Program We use a Like-Kind Exchange Program (hereinafter defined) for our vehicles where we dispose of our vehicles and acquire replacement vehicles in such a way that we defer the gain on these dispositions for tax purposes. The use of this Like-Kind Exchange Program has allowed us to defer a material amount of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2002. In order to obtain the benefit of the deferral of the gains on disposal of our vehicles, we must acquire replacement vehicles within a specified time frame, and must also maintain or increase the overall size of our fleet comparable to the prior tax year. - 23 - Our ability to defer the gains on the disposition of our vehicles under our Like-Kind Exchange Program is affected by significant downsizing of our fleet. Projection of the results under the Like-Kind Exchange Program is complex, requires numerous assumptions and is not subject to precise estimation. Actual results depend upon future sale and purchase transactions extending up to 180 days after year-end and actual results may differ from current projections. In September 2010, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010 (the “Small Business Act”), which extended 50% bonus depreciation allowances for assets placed in service in 2010, retroactive to the first of the year. In December 2010, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the “Tax Relief Act”) which increased the bonus depreciation allowance to 100% for assets placed in service from September 9, 2010 through December 31, 2011, as well as provided for 50% bonus depreciation for assets placed in service in 2012. The combined effect of the Small Business Act and the Tax Relief Act (collectively, the “Acts”) is to significantly reduce our federal income taxes for the years affected and to result in a refundable overpayment of 2010 federal tax amounts deposited prior to the enactment of the Acts. We expect to fully recover these overpayments in 2011 through cash refunds and offsets to potential 2011 federal income taxes payable. The Company’s ability to continue to defer the reversal of prior period tax deferrals will depend on a number of factors, including the size of the Company’s fleet, as well as the availability of accelerated depreciation methods in future years. Accordingly, the Company may make material cash tax payments in future periods. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season for vehicle rentals. Any event that disrupts rental activity, fleet supply, or industry fleet capacity during the second and third quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity, our cash flows and/or our results of operations in those periods and for the full year. Customer Surcharges In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles and, where permitted, the concession cost imposed by airport authorities or the owners and/or operators of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. Consistent with industry-wide business practices, we separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to customers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice complies with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals in certain states that, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas that may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. Enactment of any of these proposals could restrict our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Laws and Regulations We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and Canada and other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations, including our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Optional insurance products, including supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. - 24 - Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. As a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, if customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the U.S. and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for car rental services could be affected, or our vehicle costs and/or other costs could increase and our business could be adversely affected. Laws in many jurisdictions limit the types of information that may be collected about individuals with whom we transact business, as well as how we collect, retain and use the information that we are permitted to collect. The regulations applicable to privacy and data security are rapidly evolving, and additional regulations in those areas, some of which is difficult for us to accommodate, are often proposed and occasionally adopted. Privacy and data security regulations could have an adverse effect on our business through hindering our transaction processing activities and/or through the resulting cost of complying with such regulations. Additionally, it is possible that we could face significant liability for failing to comply with such requirements or new requirements as they are adopted. We are subject to Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council comprised of the major credit card companies to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or rectify a security issue may result in fines. Although unlikely, restrictions on accepting payment cards may be imposed on companies that are not compliant and fail to timely remediate this non-compliance. While we have not been subject to any fines or limitations on our ability to accept payment cards, there is no assurance that we will not incur fines or such limitations in the future. Low Cost Structure Our low cost structure has historically been one of our primary competitive advantages, as it has allowed us to offer low cost vehicle rentals and drive rental transactions to our brands. Our inability to maintain our low cost structure could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. In an effort to maintain control on operating expenses, we have implemented cost reduction initiatives. These initiatives include, among other things, headcount reductions, business process re-engineering and internal reorganizations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to implement cost reduction initiatives to offset increasing fixed costs or, that we can do so without adversely affecting customer service levels and employee morale, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Manufacturer Safety Recalls Our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers. Under certain circumstances, the recalls may cause us to attempt to retrieve cars from customers and cause us to decide not to re-rent vehicles until we can arrange for the repairs described in the recalls to be completed. We could face liability claims if recalls affect vehicles that we have already sold. If a large number of vehicles are subject to simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts are not available, we may not be able to re-rent recalled vehicles for a significant period of time. These types of disruptions could jeopardize our ability to satisfy demand for our vehicles, or could result in the loss of business to our competitors. Depending on the severity of any manufacturer recall, it could have a material and adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. - 25 - Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. In 2010 and 2009, we maintained the level of self-insurance of $7.5 million per occurrence for public liability and property damage claims, including third-party bodily injury and property damage, and maintain the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability of $5.0 million. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. We self-insure for all losses on supplemental liability insurance policies sold to vehicle rental customers. A significant change in the amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental regulatory requirements related to the ownership, storage or use of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and new and used motor oil; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of waste materials. We have made, and expect to continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures may be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have designed programs to maintain compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including leak detection testing of underground storage tanks, and to provide financial assurance for remediation of spills or releases. However, we cannot be certain that our programs will guarantee compliance with all regulations to which we are subject. Environmental legislation and regulations and related administrative policies have changed rapidly in recent years. There is a risk that governmental environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future and that we may be subject to additional legal proceedings brought by government agencies or private parties for environmental matters. In addition, there may be additional locations of which we are currently unaware at which wastes generated by us may have been released or disposed. In the future, these locations may become the subject of cleanup for which we may be liable, in whole or part. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future environmental liabilities will not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations or cash flows. Dependence on Outsourcing Arrangements HP handles the majority of our IT services. If HP fails to meet its obligations in all material respects as and when required under our agreement, we may suffer a loss of business functionality and productivity, which would adversely affect our results. Our current agreement with HP expires in August 2011 and we are currently in contract renewal discussions with HP. If there is a disruption in our relationship with HP, we may not be able to secure another IT supplier to adequately meet our IT needs on acceptable terms, which could result in performance issues and a significant increase in costs. Dependence on Communication Networks and Centralized Information Systems We heavily rely on information systems to conduct our business specifically in the areas of reservations, rental transaction processing, fleet management and accounting. We have centralized information systems in disaster resistant facilities maintained by HP in Tulsa, Oklahoma and we rely on communication service providers to link our system with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, slow the rental transaction processing, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our system back-up plans, continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, but not to eliminate it. - 26 - Our systems contain personal information about our customers. Our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or that of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Risk Factors Relating to a Potential Business Combination Transaction Certain Transactions or Events Could Make Us Liable for a $44.6 Million Termination Fee, Plus Reimbursement of Transaction Expenses Because our stockholders did not approve the proposed acquisition of the Company by Hertz at a time when a competing takeover proposal had been announced and had not been withdrawn, we could be liable to Hertz for a termination fee of approximately $44.6 million, plus reimbursement of up to $5 million of Hertz’s transaction expenses, if, within 12 months after the October 1, 2010 termination date of our Merger Agreement with Hertz, we enter into a definitive agreement with a third party with respect to the consummation of a “Company Takeover Transaction”, our Board of Directors recommends to our stockholders a Company Takeover Transaction, or a Company Takeover Transaction is consummated. A Company Takeover Transaction includes (i) a proposal for the merger, consolidation, share exchange, business combination, reorganization, recapitalization or similar transaction involving more than 50% of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries; (ii) the direct or indirect acquisition of assets or businesses representing 50% or more of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, whether pursuant to an acquisition of securities, assets or otherwise; or (iii) the acquisition of 50% or more of any class of the issued and outstanding equity or voting securities of the Company. In the event that such termination fee were to become payable, there can be no assurance that the relevant third party will agree to bear all or any portion of such fee. Cooperation with Avis Budget in Seeking Regulatory Approval of a Possible Merger Transaction and Risks to the Company Whether or Not We Enter into a Definitive Agreement with Avis Budget As previously announced, we have agreed to cooperate with Avis Budget in seeking regulatory approval of a possible business combination transaction with Avis Budget, but we have not entered into any definitive agreement with Avis Budget. Avis Budget may not be able to obtain such approval on reasonable terms and, even if it does, we may not be able to reach agreement with Avis Budget on the terms of a merger or other business combination transaction. Any such agreement would be subject to the approval of our stockholders and possibly other material conditions, such as potential divestitures of assets or businesses of either or both of the Company and Avis Budget, or the approval of Avis Budget’s stockholders. Our efforts to cooperate with Avis Budget in seeking regulatory approval and any proposed business combination transaction with Avis Budget or any other third party, whether or not consummated, may result in a diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations, a loss of key personnel, and a disruption of our operations. Any proposed transaction with Avis Budget could also affect our relationships with third parties. Any definitive agreement with respect to a business combination transaction would also likely impose customary restrictions on the conduct of our business outside of the ordinary course prior to the closing of the transaction or the termination of the agreement, which may also adversely affect our ability to manage our operations effectively in light of changes in economic or market conditions or to execute our business strategy and meet our financial goals. Continuing to Operate as a Stand-Alone Company We will also face risks to our business and prospects if we continue as a stand-alone company, including constraints on our ability to increase revenues and operating income, given the challenges we face in increasing our market share in the key airport and local markets we serve, high barriers to entry in the insurance replacement market, capital and other constraints on expanding company-owned stores internationally, and the challenges we would face in further reducing our expenses. - 27 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Table of Contents None. 