ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Many of the markets in which we operate are mature and highly competitive resulting in pricing pressure and the need to continuously reduce costs. Many of the markets we serve are highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products. We focus our efforts on the middle and high-end segment of the market where we feel that we can compete due to the importance of product design, quality and durability to the customer. However, our ability to effectively compete is impacted by a number of factors. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. · Competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products beyond our ability to adjust costs because their costs are lower than ours, especially products sourced from Asia. · Competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, which may enable them to more effectively withstand changes in market conditions. · Competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. · Consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the markets in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. · New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities to manufacture products that compete with our products. · We may not be able to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be competitive. · Customers may no longer value our product design, quality or durability over the lower cost products of our competitors. Sales for certain precision slides and ergonomic products are concentrated in the office furniture market, which has periodically experienced significant reductions in demand that could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Sales of our products to the office furniture market accounted for approximately 33% in each of 2010 and 2009 and 36% in 2008 of our total net sales. The future growth, if any, of the office furniture market will be affected by a variety of macroeconomic factors, such as service industry employment levels, corporate cash flows and non-residential commercial construction, as well as industry factors such as corporate reengineering and restructuring, technology demands, ergonomic, health and safety concerns and corporate relocations. There can be no assurance that current or future economic or industry trends will not have a material adverse affect our business. - 9 - Our failure to enter into new markets would result in the continued significant impact of fluctuations in office furniture market demand on our operating results. In an effort to reduce our dependence on the office furniture market for certain products and to increase our participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to identify new customers and develop new applications for our products in markets outside of the office furniture market, such as home appliances, toolboxes and server racks. Developing these new applications for our products involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to our limited experience with customers and applications in these markets as well as facing competitors who are already established in these markets. We may not be successful in developing new customers or applications for our products outside of the office furniture industry. Significant time may be required to develop new applications and uncertainty exists a s to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our development of innovative features for current products is critical to sustaining and growing our sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. We spend a significant amount of time and effort to refine, improve and adapt our existing products for new customers and applications. Since expenditures for these types of activities are not considered research and development expense under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the amount of our research and development expenditures, which is not significant, is not indicative of the overall effort involved in the development of new product features. The introduction of new product features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of the new product features with current and potential customers. The ability to coordinate these activities with current and potential customers may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new product features that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new product features we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new product features typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel or raw materials. As we attempt to introduce new product features in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might n egatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. Recent and future acquisitions could subject us to a number of operational risks. A key component of our strategy is to grow and diversify our business through acquisitions. Our ability to successfully execute this component of our strategy entails a number of risks, including: · the identification of suitable growth opportunities; · an inaccurate assessment of acquired liabilities that were undisclosed or not properly disclosed; · the entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience; · the diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; · the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; · difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and · an increase in our indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. - 10 - Higher costs of our commodity related raw materials may decrease our liquidity. Certain of the raw materials used in our products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world-wide supply and demand as well as speculative investor activity. Coiled steel is the major raw material used in the manufacture of precision ball bearing slides and ergonomic computer support systems. Plastic resins for injection molded plastics are also an integral material for ergonomic computer support systems. Zinc and brass are the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of security products. Stainless steel tubing is the major raw material used in the manufacture of marine exhaust systems. These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources. We occasionall y enter into raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the short-term impact of future increases in commodity raw material costs. Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases. Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity as we may be unable to offset the higher costs with increases in our selling prices or reductions in other operating costs. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights or claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could substantially harm our business. We rely on patent, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our technology and designs. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Further, there can be no assurance that any of our pending trademark or patent applications will be approved. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect intell ectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our technology and designs adequately against unauthorized third party use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and distract our management’s and technical staff’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected technology, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our technology. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable pricing terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business could be adversely impacted. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We operate production facilities in several countries (the United States, Canada and Taiwan), and we believe all of our worldwide production facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit green house gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes. To date the climate change legislation in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. However, if green house gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements. If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. - 11 - ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 