Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. - 8 - - Many of the markets in which we operate are mature and highly competitive resulting in pricing pressure and the need to continuously reduce costs. Many of the markets we serve are highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products. We focus our efforts on the middle and high-end segment of the market where we feel that we can compete due to the importance of product design, quality and durability to the customer. However, our ability to effectively compete is impacted by a number of factors. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. · Competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs, especially those sourced from Asia. · Competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, which may enable them to more effectively withstand changes in market conditions. · Competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. · Consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the markets in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. · New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities to manufacture products that compete with our products. · Our ability to sustain a cost structure that enables us to be cost-competitive. · Our ability to adjust costs relative to our pricing. · Customers may no longer value our product design, quality or durability over lower cost. Sales for certain precision slides and ergonomic products are concentrated in the office furniture industry, which has periodically experienced significant reductions in demand that could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Sales of our products to the office furniture manufacturing industry accounted for approximately 32%, 36% and 43% for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The future growth, if any, of the office furniture industry will be affected by a variety of macroeconomic factors, such as service industry employment levels, corporate cash flows and non-residential commercial construction, as well as industry factors such as corporate reengineering and restructuring, technology demands, ergonomic, health and safety concerns and corporate relocations. There can be no assurance that current or future economic or industry trends will not materially and adversely affect our business. Our failure to enter into new markets with our current businesses would result in the continued significant impact of fluctuations in demand within the office furniture manufacturing industry on our operating results. In an effort to reduce our dependence on the office furniture market for certain products and to increase our participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to identifying new customers and developing new applications for those products in markets outside of the office furniture industry, such as home appliances and tool boxes. Developing these new applications for our products involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to our limited experience with customers and applications in these markets as well as facing competitors who are already established in these markets. We may not be successful in developing new customers or applications for our products outside of the office furniture industry. Significant time may be required to develop new applications and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our development of new products as well as innovative features for current products is critical to sustaining and growing our sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. The introduction of new products and features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of the new products with current and potential customers. The ability to coordinate these activities with current and potential customers may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new products that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new products typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel or raw materials. As we attempt to introduce new products in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. - 9 - - Recent and future acquisitions could subject us to a number of operational risks. A key component of our strategy is to grow and diversify our business through acquisitions. Our ability to successfully execute this component of our strategy entails a number of risks, including: · the identification of suitable growth opportunities; · an inaccurate assessment of acquired liabilities that were undisclosed or not properly disclosed; · the entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience; · the diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; · the potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; · difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and · an increase in our indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. Higher costs of our raw materials may decrease our liquidity. Certain of the raw materials used in our products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world-wide supply and demand. Coiled steel is the major raw material used in the manufacture of precision ball bearing slides and ergonomic computer support systems. Plastic resins for injection molded plastics are also an integral material for ergonomic computer support systems. Zinc is a principal raw material used in the manufacture of security products. Stainless steel tubing is the major raw material used in the manufacture of marine exhaust systems. These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources. We occasionally enter into raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the short-term impact of future increases in raw material costs. Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases. Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity as we may be unable to offset the higher costs with increased selling prices for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 10 - - ITEM 