Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We require substantial liquidity to run our business. We require a substantial amount of liquidity to operate our business and fund the growth of our automobile finance operations. Among other things, we use such liquidity to acquire automobile contracts, pay securitization costs and fund related accounts, satisfy working capital requirements and pay operating expenses and interest expense. We depend on warehouse financing and securitizations to fund our operations and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain warehouse financing or access the public capital markets in the future. In addition, since we shifted the funding source of our automobile finance business to the public capital markets through warehouse facilities and securitizations during the third quarter of 2004, we have only limited experience in managing such warehouse facilities and securitizations. If we are unable to access acceptable warehouse financing or the capital markets, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our automobile finance business would be harmed if we cannot maintain relationships with independent dealers and franchisees of automobile manufacturers. We purchase automobile contracts primarily from automobile dealers. Many of our competitors have long-standing relationships with used automobile dealers and may offer dealers or their customers other forms of financing that we currently do not provide. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our relationships with dealers, we may be unable to purchase contracts in volume and on the terms that we anticipate and consequently our automobile finance business would be materially and adversely affected. Because we loan money to credit-impaired borrowers, we may have a higher risk of delinquency and default. Substantially all of our automobile contracts involve loans made to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than are permitted by traditional lenders. Loans made to borrowers who are restricted in their ability to obtain financing from traditional lenders generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than loans made to borrowers with better credit. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss 14 Table of Contents if the net realizable value of the automobile securing the loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria and collection methods enable us to manage the higher risks inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against such risks. If we experience higher losses than anticipated, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our warehouse facility to fund our automobile finance operations in order to finance the purchase of automobile contracts pending a new securitization. Our business strategy requires that such financing continues to be available to us. Our primary source of operating liquidity comes from a $250 million warehouse facility, which we use to fund our automobile finance operations in order to finance the purchase of automobile contracts pending securitization. Whether we may obtain further advances under the facility depends on, among other things, the performance of the automobile receivables that are pledged under the facility and whether we maintain compliance with certain financial covenants contained in the sale and servicing agreement. The performance, timing and amount of cash flows from automobile contracts varies based on a number of factors, including: • the yields received on automobile contracts; • the rates and amounts of loan delinquencies, defaults and net credit losses; • how quickly and at what price repossessed vehicles can be resold; and • how quickly new automobile finance branches become cash flow positive. There is no assurance that our warehouse facility will continue to be available to us or that it will continue to be available on favorable terms. If our existing credit facility expires or is terminated and we are then unable to arrange new warehousing credit facilities, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on securitizations to generate cash. We rely on our ability to aggregate and pledge receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of our automobile warehouse credit facility and to create availability to purchase additional automobile contracts. Our ability to complete securitizations of our automobile contracts is affected by a number of factors, including: • conditions in the securities markets, generally; • conditions in the asset-backed securities market, specifically; • yields of our portfolio of automobile contracts; • the credit quality of our portfolio of automobile contracts; and • our ability to obtain credit enhancement. If we are unable to securitize a sufficient number of our contracts in a timely manner, our liquidity position would be adversely affected, as we will require continued execution of securitization transactions in order to fund our future liquidity needs. In addition, unanticipated delays in closing a securitization would also increase our interest rate risk by increasing the warehousing period for our contracts. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience in the underlying pool of receivables or otherwise, we will be required to reduce the purchase of contracts, sell receivables on a whole-loan basis or otherwise revise the scale of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. 15 Table of Contents The terms of our securitizations depend on credit enhancement and there is no assurance we will be able to continue to obtain credit enhancement. Our securitizations to date have utilized credit enhancement in the form of a financial guaranty insurance policy in order to achieve “AAA/Aaa” rating for the asset-backed securities issued to investors. This form of credit enhancement reduces the cost of the securitizations compared to alternative forms of credit enhancement currently available to us and enhances the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. The willingness of an insurance provider to insure our future securitizations is subject to many factors outside our control including the insurance provider’s own rating considerations. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to obtain credit enhancements in any form or on acceptable terms or that future securitizations will be similarly rated. Our failure to obtain credit enhancements in the future would have an adverse impact on the achievable securitization advance rate that we obtain from the sale of securitized automobile contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate, which may adversely impact our business. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future. Factors that could affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal variations in the volume of automobile contracts purchased, which historically tend to be higher in the first and second quarters of the year; • interest rate spreads; • credit losses, which historically tend to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of the year; and • operating costs. As a result of such fluctuations, our quarterly results may be difficult to predict, which may create uncertainty surrounding the market price for our securities. In particular, if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. If we do not retain our key employees and we fail to attract new employees, our business will be impaired. We are dependent upon the continued services of our key employees. In addition, our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified branch managers. The loss of the services of any key employee, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. However, the Company does maintain a key personal insurance on its CEO and two executive vice presidents. Competition may adversely affect our performance. Our business is highly competitive. Competition in our markets can take many forms, including convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, marketing and distribution channels, amount and terms of the loan and interest rates. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. We compete primarily with independent companies specializing in non-prime automobile finance and, to a lesser extent, with commercial banks, the captive finance affiliates of automobile manufacturers and savings associations. Fluctuations in interest rates and general and local economic conditions also may affect the competition we face. Competitors with lower costs of capital have a competitive advantage over us. As we expand into new geographic markets, we will face additional competition from lenders already established in these markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these lenders. Our failure to compete successfully would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to manage or sustain our growth. We have realized substantial growth in our automobile finance business since its inception in 1996. Consequently, we are vulnerable to a variety of business risks generally associated with rapidly growing companies. At December 31, 2005, we had 107 branches, of which four were opened in 1996, five in 1997, five in 1998, six in 1999, eight in 2000, 12 in 2001, 14 in 2002, 16 in 2003, 17 in 2004 and 20 in 2005. The amount of automobile contracts purchased has increased from $151.6 million for 2001 to $184.4 million for 2002 to $265.4 million for 2003 to $368.0 million for 2004 to $461.5 million for 2005. In the future, our rate of growth will be dependent upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to expand the number of branches, attract qualified branch managers, and expand our relationships with independent and franchised dealers of used automobiles. In addition, we may broaden our product offerings to include additional types of consumer loans or may enter other specialty finance businesses. Our growth strategy requires that we successfully obtain and manage acceptable warehouse financing and access the capital markets. It also requires additional capital and human resources as well as improvements to our infrastructure and management information systems. Our failure to implement our planned growth strategy or the failure of our automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We face risks related to our recent accounting restatements. During 2004 and the first quarter of 2005, we decided to restate our consolidated financial statements for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, three months ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, three and nine months ended September 30, 2003 and each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 to correct certain accounting entries. The restatement of these consolidated financial statements may lead to litigation claims and/or regulatory proceedings against us. The defense of any such claims or proceedings may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims or proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation or regulatory proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. We also may have difficulty obtaining financing such as warehouse lines of credit or otherwise and we may not be able to effectuate our current operating strategy, including the ability to acquire contracts at projected levels if such claims or proceedings occur. Moreover, we may be the subject of negative publicity focusing on the financial statement inaccuracies and resulting restatements and negative reactions from our shareholders, creditors or others with which we do business. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could harm our business and reputation and cause the price of our securities to decline. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB and significant deficiencies and deficiencies in certain of our disclosure controls and procedures. Under the PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. 17 Table of Contents While we have taken steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with the NASDAQ National Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to Our Ownership and Organizational Structure The ownership of our common stock is concentrated, which may result in conflicts of interest and actions that are not in the best interests of all of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, Pan American Financial, L.P. and its general partner, PAFGP, LLC, together owned 6,059,784 shares of our common stock, representing 35.4% of our total outstanding common stock. Our Chairman, Guillermo Bron, beneficially owns these shares through his sole ownership, and position as Managing Member, of PAFGP. As a result, our officers and directors, acting together, will have substantial influence over our management and affairs, including the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to a our shareholders for approval, the election and removal of our Board of Directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change of control or impede a merger. This concentration of ownership could adversely affect the price of our securities or lessen any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. The results of our operations and our financial condition are principally dependent upon the business activities of our principal consolidated subsidiary, UACC. In addition, our ability to fund our operations, meet our obligations for payment of principal and interest on our outstanding debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock are dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $10.3 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to a subsidiary trust, UPFC Trust I, which, in turn, had $10.0 million of company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities outstanding. The junior subordinated debentures mature in 2033. However, we may call the debt any time on or after July 7, 2008 and may call it before July 7, 2008 if certain events occur as described in the subordinated debt agreement. The redemption price is par plus accrued and unpaid interest unless we make a redemption call before July 7, 2008. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to repay that debt at the required time. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any distribution of funds to us from our subsidiaries is subject to statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, the level of the subsidiaries’ earnings and various other business considerations. Risks Related to Regulatory Factors The scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex state and local regulations and laws. Because we operate in 31 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, for all of these jurisdictions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and in some cases there is conflict among jurisdictions. From time to time, legislation, as well as regulations, are enacted which have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or 18 Table of Contents expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance among financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of financial institutions and financial services providers are frequently made in the U.S. Congress, in the state legislatures, and by various regulatory agencies. This legislation may change our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of us or any of our subsidiaries. Furthermore, as our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, accurately interpret and properly train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of non-compliance with these laws and regulations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to Factors Outside Our Control Adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our business is affected directly by changes in general economic conditions, including changes in employment rates, prevailing interest rates and real wages. During periods of economic slowdown or recession, we may experience a decrease in demand for our financial products and services, an increase in our servicing costs, a decline in collateral values or an increase in delinquencies and defaults. A decline in collateral values and an increase in delinquencies and defaults increase the probability and severity of losses. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults or losses would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our margin spread and the profitability of our lending activities. Our results of operations depend to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest received by us on the automobile contracts acquired and the interest payable under our credit facilities and further to the asset-backed securitization notes payable issued in our securitizations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions, which are beyond our control. Several factors affect our ability to manage interest rate risk, such as the fact that automobile contracts are purchased at fixed interest rates, while amounts borrowed under our warehouse facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustment to reflect prevailing rates for short-term borrowings. In addition, the interest rates charged on the automobile contracts purchased from dealers are limited by statutory maximums, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. Also, the interest rate demanded by investors in securitizations is a function of prevailing market rates for comparable transactions and the general interest rate environment. Because the contracts purchased by us have fixed rates, we bear the risk of spreads narrowing because of interest rate increases during the period from the date the contracts are purchased until the pricing of our securitizations of such contracts. 19 Table of Contents Decreases in wholesale auction proceeds could adversely impact our recovery rates. We generally sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries usually do not cover the net outstanding balance of the automobile contracts, and the resulting deficiencies are charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown, recession or otherwise will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, wholesale prices for used automobiles may decrease as a result of significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. If our recovery rates decline, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 