risk factors, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock: • Developments in our relationships with current or future strategic partners and collaborators; • Announcements of technological innovations or new products or processes by us or our competitors; • Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • Our ability to access genetic material from diverse ecological environments and practice our technologies; • Future royalties from product sales, if any, by our collaborative partners; • Future royalties and fees for use of our proprietary processes, if any, by our licensees; • Fluctuations in our operating results; • Litigation; • Developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation; and • Economic and other external factors or other disaster or crisis. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. Our officers, directors, and stockholders with at least 5% of our stock together controlled approximately 48% of our outstanding common stock as of March 1, 2007. If these officers, directors, and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, as of March 1, 2007, Syngenta and its affiliates controlled approximately 16.5% of our outstanding common stock, and by themselves will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together, could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. Future sales of our stock by large stockholders could cause the price of our stock to decline. A number of our stockholders hold significant amounts of our stock. For example, as of March 1, 2007, Syngenta, our largest stockholder, owned 7,963,593 shares of our common stock, or approximately 16.5% of our 43 outstanding shares. All of our shares owned by Syngenta are eligible for sale in the public market subject to compliance with the applicable securities laws. We have agreed that, upon Syngenta’s request, we will file one or more registration statements under the Securities Act in order to permit Syngenta to offer and sell shares of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our stock by our large stockholders, including Syngenta, in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Merger with Celunol Corp. Obtaining required approvals and satisfying closing conditions may delay or prevent completion of the proposed transaction. Completion of the proposed Merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of all consents and approvals of all governmental authorities required for consummation of the proposed transaction. The requirement for these approvals could delay or prevent the completion of the proposed transaction. In addition, antitrust authorities may impose conditions in connection with the proposed transaction that may adversely affect the combined company’s operations after consummation of the Merger. Moreover, notwithstanding the expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act, the FTC, the DOJ, a state or private person or entity could seek, under U.S. federal or state antitrust laws, among other things, to enjoin or rescind the proposed transaction. It cannot be assumed that these consents and approvals will be obtained, or that their terms, conditions and timing will not be detrimental to us or Celunol. If the conditions to the Merger are not met, the Merger will not occur. Even if the Merger is approved by our stockholders and the stockholders of Celunol, specified conditions must be satisfied or waived to complete the Merger. These conditions are described in detail in the merger agreement. Neither we nor Celunol can assure you that all of the conditions will be satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Merger will not occur or will be delayed, and we and Celunol each may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the Merger. The combined company’s stock price is expected to be volatile, and the market price of its common stock may drop following the merger. If the merger occurs, the market price of the combined company’s common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of the combined company’s common stock to fluctuate include: • significant accidents, damage from severe weather or other natural disasters affecting the combined company’s pilot plant; • interruption or delay in the construction of the combined company’s demonstration plant; • risks and uncertainties related to siting, permitting, construction, materials and equipment procurement, and other issues related to development of commercial-scale facilities; • any inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms to fund the combined company’s operations and pursue its business plan; • reductions in the price of gasoline or increases in the prices for biomass feedstocks; • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key collaboration agreements and licensing agreements; • the initiation of material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of the combined company’s intellectual property rights or otherwise; 44 • general and industry-specific economic and regulatory conditions that may affect the combined company’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize biofuels and cellulosic ethanol and other products; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or alternative energy sources or other products by competitors of the combined company; • decreases in the market for ethanol, and cellulosic ethanol; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover the combined company’s common stock; • future sales of the combined company’s common stock; and • period-to-period fluctuations in the combined company’s financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of the combined company’s common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm the combined company’s profitability and reputation. The combined company may be unable to integrate its operations successfully and realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The merger involves the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the companies’ operations include, among other things: • the necessity of coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; • consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • consolidating research and development and operations; • retaining key employees; and • preserving our and Celunol’s research and development, collaboration, distribution and other important relationships. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company’s business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could harm the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the combined company after the merger. Among the factors considered by our board of directors in connection with its approval of the merger agreement were the opportunities for synergies from complementary technologies that could result from the merger. There can be no assurance that these synergies will be realized within the time periods contemplated or that they will be realized at all. There also can be no assurance that our integration with Celunol will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by the companies to result from the merger. 45 Celunol’s business is based on technology licensed to Celunol by the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc. If that license should terminate, Celunol’s ability to conduct its business would be seriously impaired. The combined company may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and might never achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $39.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $329.5 million. Through 2006, our losses were attributable to our specialty enzymes business. We expect to continue to incur additional losses over the next few years as we pursue our specialty enzymes business, continue to develop independent products and as a result of our continued investment in our sales and marketing infrastructure to support anticipated growth in product sales. Beginning in 2007, we expect to begin to incur additional losses as we pursue our vertical integration strategy within biofuels. The extent of our future losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, in our contract revenue, future product sales at profitable margins, and on the level of our expenses. To date, most of our revenue has been derived from collaborations and grants related to our specialty enzymes business, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenue for 2007 will result from the same sources. Celunol is a development stage company and has incurred significant losses in each fiscal year since its inception, which included net losses of $5,409,312 in 2004, $4,433,456 in 2005 and $8,003,763 in 2006. As a result of ongoing operating losses, Celunol had an accumulated deficit of $64,372,482 at December 31, 2006. Celunol expects to continue to incur significant construction, project development, administrative, and other expenses. Celunol will need to generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability, and Celunol cannot be sure that it will achieve profitability at all or, if it does, that it will remain profitable for any substantial period of time. The combined company will need to conduct significant research, development, testing and plant construction activities that, together with projected general and administrative expenses, are expected to result in substantial increased operating losses for at least the next several years. Even if the combined company does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If the combined company loses key personnel or is unable to attract and retain additional personnel, the combined company may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop its own products. The loss of any key members of the combined company’s management, including Carlos Riva, who is expected to be the combined company’s President and Chief Executive Officer or John McCarthy, who is expected to be the combined company’s Chief Financial Officer, or business development or scientific staff, or failure to attract or retain other key management, business development or scientific employees, could prevent the combined company from developing and commercializing biofuels and cellulosic ethanol and other new products and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on its business strategy. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel to perform research and development and commercialization work and to negotiate collaborations and licensing arrangements on behalf of the combined company will be critical to the combined company’s success. There is intense competition for qualified managerial, business development and scientific personnel from numerous companies, as well as from academic and government organizations, research institutions and other entities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 46 