ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. We have a significant amount of debt coming due in fiscal 2011 that we may not be able to repay. We have approximately $4.2 million of debt that we owe certain company insiders that is due and payable on July 1, 2010, approximately $3.7 million of which is secured by a first lien on all of our properties and assets, including all of our accounts receivable. We may not generate enough cash flow by July 1, 2010 to pay off these obligations. While we currently expect to be able to refinance this debt or reach an agreement to extend the maturity date of this debt, there can be no assurances that this will in fact occur. Failure to refinance or extend the maturity date of this debt will give the secured holders of such debt the right to foreclose on our properties and assets, including our accounts receivables. If these foreclosure rights are exercised, we will be forced to file for protection available under federal bankruptcy laws, which will likely render our equity, including our issued and outstanding common stock, valueless. We have a general history of losses and may not operate profitably in the future. We have incurred losses for the last three fiscal years. While we achieved positive operating cash flow in fiscal 2009, our net losses continued and may continue in the future. As of March 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $64,075,551. We believe that our planned growth and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to promote our brand name and gain clients and expand our relationships with clients for whom we would provide licensing agreements and system integration. Accordingly, we intend to invest heavily in marketing, strategic partnership, development of our client base and development of our marketing technology and operating infrastructure. If we are not successful in promoting our brand name and expanding our client base, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue to operate our business. 4 Our ability to continue as a going concern may be contingent upon our ability to secure capital from prospective investors or lenders. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We believe we currently have adequate cash to fund anticipated cash needs through March 31, 2010. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Any equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financing, if available, will increase expenses and may involve restrictive covenants. We may be required to raise additional capital, at times and in amounts that are uncertain, especially under the current capital market conditions. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Under these circumstances, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or are required to raise it on undesirable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, which could require us to: • curtail our operations significantly; • sell significant assets; • seek arrangements with strategic partners or other parties that may require us to relinquish significant rights to products, technologies or markets; or • explore other strategic alternatives including a merger or sale of US Dataworks. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors that could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue or profitability expectations, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results can vary significantly depending upon a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: · market acceptance of and changes in demand for our products and services; · gain or loss of clients or strategic relationships; · announcement or introduction of new software, services and products by us or by our competitors; · our ability to build brand recognition; · timing of sales to customers; · price competition; · our ability to upgrade and develop systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; · our ability to attract and integrate new personnel in a timely and effective manner; · our ability to introduce and market products and services in accordance with market demand; · changes in governmental regulation; · reduction in or delay of capital spending by our clients due to the effects of terrorism, war and political instability; and · general economic conditions, including economic conditions specific to the financial services industry. In addition, from time to time, we derive a portion of our revenue from agreements signed at the end of the quarter. Our operating results could suffer if the timing of these agreements is delayed. Depending on the type of agreements we enter into, we may not be able to recognize revenue under these agreements in the quarter in which they are signed. Some of all of these factors could negatively affect demand for our products and services, and our future operating results. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. We may be unable to adjust spending rapidly to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall, which could harm our quarterly operating results. Because of the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, we do not have the ability to predict future operating results with any certainty. Because of the above factors, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of results of operation as an indication of future performances. 5 We may not be able to develop or maintain our relationships with distribution partners, which may cause our cash flow to decline. We may not be able to maintain or develop new relationships with distribution channel partners. These strategic relationships are a core component of our sales and distribution strategy and are a part of our growth strategy. The loss of a distribution channel partner could harm our financial results. Because a small number of customers have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, our revenue could decline because of delays of customer orders or the failure to retain customers. We have a small number of customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our revenue could decline because of a delay in signing agreements with a single customer or the failure to retain an existing customer. We may not obtain additional customers. The failure to obtain additional customers and the failure to retain existing customers will harm our operating results. If general economic and business conditions do not improve, we may experience decreased revenue or lower growth rates. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services in the product segments in which we compete. Because our sales are primarily to major banking and government customers, our business also depends on general economic and business conditions. A softening of demand caused by a weakening of the economy may result in decreased revenue or lower growth rates. As a result, we may not be able to effectively promote future license revenue growth in our application business. We may not be able to attract, retain or integrate key personnel, which may prevent us from successfully operating our business. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or attract other qualified personnel in the future. Our success will depend upon the continued service of key management personnel. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team or our failure to attract and retain other key personnel could disrupt operations and have a negative effect on employee productivity and morale and harm our financial results. We operate in markets that are intensely and increasingly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue could decline and we may be unable to gain and may lose market share. The market for financial services software is highly competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, product offerings and evolving demands of the marketplace. Some of our competitors have: · longer operating histories; · larger installed customer bases; · greater name recognition and longer relationships with clients; and · significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than US Dataworks. Our competitors may also be better positioned to address technological and market developments or may react more favorably to technological changes. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: · the breadth and quality of services; · creative design and systems engineering expertise; 6 · pricing; · technological innovation; and · understanding clients’ strategies and needs. Competitors may develop or offer strategic services that provide significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services we offer. If we fail to gain market share or lose existing market share, our financial condition, operating results and business could be adversely affected and the value of the investment in us could be reduced significantly. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. We may be responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of our client’s sensitive information, and any unauthorized use or disclosure could result in substantial damages and harm our reputation. The services we provide for our clients may grant us access to confidential or proprietary client information. Any unauthorized disclosure or use could result in a claim against us for substantial damages and could harm our reputation. Our contractual provisions attempting to limit these damages may not be enforceable in all instances or may otherwise fail to adequately protect us from liability for damages. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our business may suffer, we may lose revenue or we may be required to spend significant time and resources to defend our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business may suffer from the piracy of our technology and the associated loss in revenue. Any patents that we may hold may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property and may be challenged by third parties. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. These infringement claims or any future claims could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend our intellectual property rights, redesign our products or develop or license a substitute technology. We may be unsuccessful in acquiring or developing substitute technology and any required license may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of any third party claims or claims by us against such third party, such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. Furthermore, other parties may also independently develop similar or competing products that do not infringe upon our intellectual property rights. We may be unable to consummate future potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate acquired businesses or investments or foreign operations with our business, which may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention and slow our ability to expand the range of our technologies and products. We intend to continue to expand the range of our technologies and products, and we may acquire or make investments in additional complementary businesses, technologies or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments, each of which could slow our growth strategy. We have no prior history or experience in investing in or acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and therefore may have difficulties completing such transactions or realizing the benefits of such transactions, or they may have a negative effect on our business. Such investments or acquisitions could require us to devote a substantial amount of time and resources and could place a significant strain on our management and personnel. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock, which would dilute your interest in us. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. 7 We have received notice from NYSE Alternext US, formerly the AMEX, notifying us of our failure to satisfy several continued listing rules or standards, which could result us being subject to delisting procedures Our common stock is listed on NYSE Alternext US, formerly the AMEX, under the symbol “UDW.” All companies listed on NYSE Alternext US are required to comply with certain continued listing standards, including maintaining stockholders’ equity at required levels, share price requirements and other rules and regulations of NYSE Alternext US . On July 23, 2008, we received notice from the staff of NYSE Alternext US indicating that we were not in compliance with certain continued listing standards of the AMEX Company Guide in that our stockholders’ equity is less than $4,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in three of our four most recent fiscal years (Section 1003(a)(ii)) and because our stockholders’ equity is less than $6,000,000 and we had losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years (Section 1003(a)(iii)). In addition, NYSE Alternext US advised us that, in accordance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the AMEX Company Guide, we must effect a reverse stock split to address its low stock price. Failure to effect a reverse split within a reasonable amount of time could result in suspension or delisting of our common stock. On August 27, 2008 we submitted to NYSE Alternext US a Plan advising NYSE Alternext US of action we have taken, or will take, to bring us in compliance with Sections 1003(a)(ii) and 1003(a)(iii) of the AMEX Company Guide within a maximum of 18 months from July 23, 2008. Our Plan was accepted by NYSE Alternext US on October 9, 2008 subject to periodic review by NYSE Alternext US. On March 24, 2009, we received a letter from NYSE Alternext US notifying us that we were no longer in compliance with an additional continued listing standard of the AMEX Company Guide as a result of our stockholders’ equity having fallen below $2,000,000 and our having experienced losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two out of our most recent three fiscal years (Section 1003(a)(i)). This additional deficiency did not require us to submit a new Plan or revise the original Plan. If we do not show sufficient progress consistent with the Plan, the Exchange Staff will review the circumstances and may immediately commence delisting proceedings. In the event that our common stock is delisted from NYSE Alternext US, our market value and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 