Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We require substantial liquidity to run our business. We require a substantial amount of liquidity to operate our business and fund our automobile finance operations. Among other things, we use such liquidity to acquire automobile contracts, pay securitization costs and fund related accounts, satisfy working capital requirements and pay operating expenses and interest expense. Our access to liquidity sources has been negatively impacted by continued disruptions in the credit markets and capital markets, which, in turn, has caused us to downsize our operations and suspend new loan originations. If we are unable to access acceptable liquidity sources, we may be unable to resume new loan originations during 2009 and, as a result, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to access alternative sources of financing or sell receivables on a whole loan basis, then we may be not be able to pay all amounts owed under our term facility by October 16, 2009. Our agreement with our lender requires payments under a pre-determined schedule, which requires that we pay all amounts owed under the term facility by October 16, 2009. Management is currently pursuing and evaluating alternative sources of financing and is also selling receivables on a whole-loan basis to reduce the balance of the term loan. At this time, there is no assurance we will be able to restructure the facility or negotiate an extension with the current lender and these financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. We also cannot forecast if or when market liquidity conditions will improve from current stresses, although it is our expectation that the existing turmoil in the financial and credit markets may continue to affect our performance. In addition, we are subject to restrictive covenants under the term facility, which, require us to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under the facility. In the event that we fail to satisfy certain covenants in the sale and servicing agreement requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality, and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios and pool level cumulative net loss ratios), it could result in an event of default under the facility. If an event of default occurs under the facility, the lender could elect to terminate servicing, declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to be immediately due and payable and enforce the interest against collateral pledged. In addition, our breach of any covenant under the term facility would result in a corresponding breach under our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers. If we are unable to arrange for other types of financing, or are unable to pay the term facility by October 16, 2009, then our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to satisfy certain covenants in our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers, we may lose our rights to service the receivables included in our securitization trusts. In addition, our servicing rights for contracts pledged under our term loan renew on a month-to-month basis so we are subject to the potential risk each month of losing our rights to service those contracts. Our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers provide that our servicing rights with respect to the receivables included in a securitization trust may be terminated by the applicable financial guaranty insurance provider if (i) certain performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss on the receivables included in each securitization trust were to exceed specified limits, (ii) we breach our obligations under the servicing agreement, (iii) the financial guaranty insurance provider is required to make payments under a policy, or (iv) certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur. As of December 31, 2008, no such servicing right termination events have occurred with respect to any of the trusts formed by us. In addition, our term facility provides that our servicing rights for automobile contracts pledged under the term facility expire each month unless extended by the lenders in their sole and absolute good faith discretion. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although the lenders have expressed their intention that we continue to service the automobile contracts pledged to the facility our rights to service the contracts could expire at any month. Furthermore, a breach of any covenant under the term facility would result in a breach under our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers, which could also cause us to lose our rights to service receivables included in our securitization trusts. The termination of any or all of our servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Our access to liquidity sources has been negatively impacted by changes to our warehouse facility, our inability to access the securitization market and may be further negatively impacted if market conditions persist. While we actively maintain liquidity at least sufficient to cover all our maturing debt obligations or other forecasted funding requirements, our liquidity has been, and may continue to be affected, by continued disruptions in the capital markets and an inability to access the securitizations markets. Our past primary source of operating liquidity came from a $300 million warehouse facility, which we depended upon to fund our automobile finance operations in order to finance the purchase of automobile contracts pending securitization. We required continued execution of securitization transactions in order to generate cash proceeds for repayment of our warehouse facility and to create availability to purchase additional automobile contracts. However, due to unprecedented disruptions in the asset-backed securities market and credit markets in general, we have not accessed the securitization market with a transaction since November 2007 and our warehouse facility has recently converted to a term loan, providing that the Company will be required to pay all amounts owed under the term facility by October 16, 2009. It is difficult to predict if or when securitization markets will return to historical capacity and pricing levels. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve Board announced the introduction of the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (the “TALF”) in an effort to facilitate the issuance of asset-backed securities and improve the market conditions for asset-backed securities and it is currently anticipated that the facility will lend up to $200 billion of loans (although that amount may be increased to up to $1 trillion) on a non-recourse basis to holders of AAA-rated asset backed securities, fully secured by newly or recently originated consumer loans, such as auto loans. It is anticipated that the facility will cease making loans on December 31, 2009, unless that date is extended. It is unclear at this time what impact the TALF program will have on returning the securitization market to historical capacity and pricing levels or whether we will be able to access the program. We may be unable to manage consolidating our operations. As a result of the continued disruptions in the capital markets, as well as the lack of available borrowing capacity, we determined to consolidate our operations and reduce our branch footprint in order to lower expenses and meet required liquidity needs. We are vulnerable to a variety of business risks generally associated with downsizing business operations including, among others, portfolio credit deterioration, retaining and motivating qualified employees and successfully managing the resulting consolidated branches. Our failure to effectively manage this consolidation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We may be unable to obtain permanent waivers under our insurance agreement for non-compliance with covenants. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all terms of the financial covenants related to our securitization transactions. However, there are two non-financial covenants under the various financial guaranty insurance policies for the securitizations for which we are seeking permanent waivers. We are currently operating under temporary waivers for these covenants. These two covenants relate to the appointment of our chief executive officer and our agreement to maintain a warehouse facility. If we are unable to obtain permanent waivers for both these items or continuing temporary waivers, then each insurance provider may elect to enforce the various rights and remedies that are governed by the different transaction documents for each securitization, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including the performance of automobile receivables that are either pledged under our term facility (which was our prior warehouse facility) or transferred to securitization trusts, and our ability to access alternative sources of financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. If we cannot comply with the requirements in our debt instruments, then our lenders may increase our borrowing costs or require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt. If our debt payments were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay our debts. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt, foreclose upon their collateral or prevent us from making payments to other creditors on certain portions of our outstanding debt. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would suffer. Our automobile finance business would be harmed if we cannot maintain relationships with independent dealers and franchisees of automobile manufacturers. We purchase automobile contracts primarily from automobile dealers. Many of our competitors have long-standing relationships with used automobile dealers and may offer dealers or their customers other forms of financing that we currently do not provide. In addition, our relationship with automobile dealers may be adversely impacted during the time we suspend new loan originations. We suspended new loan originations during the third quarter of 2008 and are continuing to suspend new loan originations. While we anticipate that we will resume new loan originations during 2009, it is more difficult to sustain relationships with independent dealers during the suspension period. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our relationships with dealers, we may be unable to purchase contracts in the volume and on the terms that we anticipate and consequently our automobile finance business would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, there is also no assurance that the business, once resumed, will function similar to how it was in the past. Because we loan money to credit-impaired borrowers, we may have a higher risk of delinquency and default. Substantially all of our automobile contracts involve loans made to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than are permitted by traditional lenders. Loans made to borrowers who are restricted in their ability to obtain financing from traditional lenders generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than loans made to borrowers with better credit. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the automobile securing the loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria and collection methods enable us to manage the higher risks inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against such risks. If we experience higher losses than anticipated, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future. Factors that could affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal variations in the volume of automobile contracts purchased, which historically tend to be higher in the first and second quarters of the year; • interest rate spreads; 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS • credit losses, which historically tend to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of the year; and • operating costs. As a result of such fluctuations, our quarterly results may be difficult to predict, which may create uncertainty surrounding the market price for our securities. In particular, if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel. We are dependent upon the continued services of our key employees. In addition, our business strategy depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified branch managers. The loss of the services of any key employee, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Competition may adversely affect our performance. Our business is highly competitive. Competition in our markets can take many forms, including convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, marketing and distribution channels, amount and terms of the loan and interest rates. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Fluctuations in interest rates and general and local economic conditions also may affect the competition we face. Competitors with lower costs of capital have a competitive advantage over us. If we expand into new geographic markets, we will face additional competition from lenders already established in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these lenders. Our failure to compete successfully would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. An interruption in or breach of our security systems could subject us to liability. If third parties or our employees are able to interrupt or breach our network security systems or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We are subject to various consumer claims and litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, and breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of automobile contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Ownership and Organizational Structure The ownership of our common stock is concentrated, which may result in conflicts of interest and actions that are not in the best interests of all of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, our Chairman, Guillermo Bron, beneficially owned 5,741,251 shares of our common stock, representing 36.5% of our total outstanding common stock. As a result, our Chairman will have substantial influence over our management and affairs, including the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the election and removal of our Board of Directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change of control or impede a merger. This concentration of ownership could adversely affect the price of our securities or lessen any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. The results of our operations and our financial condition are principally dependent upon the business activities of our principal consolidated subsidiaries, UACC and UABO. In addition, our ability to fund our operations, meet our obligations for payment of principal and interest on our outstanding debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock are dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $10.3 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to a subsidiary trust, UPFC Trust I, which, in turn, had $10.0 million of company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities outstanding. The junior subordinated debentures mature in 2033. However, we may call the debt any time. The redemption price is par plus accrued and unpaid interest. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to repay that debt at the required time. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any distribution of funds to us from our subsidiaries is subject to statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, the level of the subsidiaries’ earnings and various other business considerations. Risks Related to Regulatory Factors The scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex state and local regulations and laws. Because we operate in 32 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, for all of these jurisdictions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and has increased significantly in response to issues arising with respect to subprime mortgage and other consumer lending, and in some cases there is conflict among jurisdictions. From time to time, legislation and regulations are enacted which increase the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of financial institutions and financial services providers are frequently made in the U.S. Congress, in the state legislatures, and by various regulatory agencies, and also have increased significantly due to subprime mortgage and other consumer lending issues. This legislation may change our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of us or any of our subsidiaries. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Factors Outside Our Control Adverse economic conditions have adversely affected our business and could continue to adversely affect our business. Our business is affected directly by changes in general economic conditions, including changes in employment rates, prevailing interest rates and real wages. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets have adversely affected our access to liquidity sources which, in turn, has caused us to downsize our operations and suspend new loan originations. During periods of economic slowdown or recession such as we are currently experiencing, we may also experience a decrease in demand for our financial products and services, an increase in our servicing costs, a decline in collateral values or an increase in delinquencies and defaults. A decline in collateral values and an increase in delinquencies and defaults increase the probability and severity of losses. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults or losses would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our margin spread and the profitability of our lending activities. Our results of operations depend to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest received by us on the automobile contracts acquired and the interest payable under our credit facilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions, which are beyond our control. Several factors affect our ability to manage interest rate risk, such as the fact that automobile contracts are purchased at fixed interest rates, while amounts borrowed under our term facility bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustment to reflect prevailing rates for short-term borrowings. In addition, the interest rates charged on the automobile contracts purchased from dealers are limited by statutory maximums, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. Also, the interest rate demanded by investors in securitizations is a function of prevailing market rates for comparable transactions and the general interest rate environment. Because the contracts purchased by us have fixed rates, we bear the risk of spreads narrowing because of interest rate increases during the period from the date the contracts are purchased until the pricing of our securitizations of such contracts. Decreases in wholesale auction proceeds could adversely impact our recovery rates. We generally sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries usually do not cover the net outstanding balance of the automobile contracts, and the resulting deficiencies are charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown, recession or otherwise will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, wholesale prices for used automobiles may decrease as a result of significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. If our recovery rates decline, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations may be impaired as a result of natural disasters. Our automobile contracts are geographically concentrated in the states of Texas, California, and Florida. These and others in which we have loans are particularly susceptible to natural disasters: earthquake in the case of California, and hurricanes and flooding in the states of Florida and Texas. Natural disasters, in those states or others, could cause a material number of our vehicle purchasers to lose their jobs, or could damage or destroy vehicles that secure our automobile contracts. In either case, such events could result in our receiving reduced collections on our automobile contracts, and could thus result in reductions in our revenues or the cash flows available to us. The effects of terrorism and military action may impair our results of operations. The long-term economic impact of the events of September 11, 2001, possible future terrorist attacks or other incidents and related military action, or current or future military action by United States forces in Iraq 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS and other regions, could have a material adverse effect on general economic conditions, consumer confidence, and market liquidity in the United States. No assurance can be given as to the effect of these events on the performance of our automobile contracts. Any adverse effect resulting from these events could materially affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, activation of a substantial number of U.S. military reservists or members of the National Guard may significantly increase the proportion of contracts whose interest rates are reduced by the application of the Service members' Civil Relief Act, which provides, generally, that an obligor who is covered by that act may not be charged interest on the related contract in excess of 6% annually during the period of the obligor's active duty. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 