Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are significantly affected by weather. Weather has a significant effect on our utility operations related to variations in temperatures and precipitation. Weather impacts include customer demand and operating revenues and the cost of energy we supply. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce our customers’ energy demand and retail operating revenues. Precipitation (consisting of snowpack and its melting pattern plus rainfall) and other streamflow conditions (such as regional water storage operations) significantly impact hydroelectric generation capability. Variations in hydroelectric generation inversely affect our reliance on market purchases and thermal generation. There is a significantly higher cost for resources other than hydroelectric generation, and these costs can be greater than the retail revenue from the related energy delivered to customers. Regional precipitation and snowpack conditions typically have a significant effect on the wholesale price of electricity. Plentiful hydroelectric generation typically depresses market prices, sometimes when we are selling surplus energy, while constrained hydroelectric generation typically elevates market prices, sometimes when we are purchasing energy. In general, high demand for electricity will generally increase both the quantity needed and price of fuel for generation and wholesale market prices. These price patterns typically fluctuate seasonally with regional supply and demand and they are exaggerated or moderated by the relative level of supply, fuel costs, and end user energy demand. As a result of these factors operating in combination, our net cost of power supply – the difference between our generating and market purchases costs and revenue from wholesale sales – varies significantly because of weather. Financial market conditions may impact our results and our liquidity The deterioration in the financial markets and credit availability that arose in 2008 and the current state of the global, United States and regional economies could have an impact on our operations. We could experience increased borrowing costs or limited access to capital on reasonable terms. Additionally, we may experience an increase in uncollectible customer accounts and collection times. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. Concerns about the regional or local economy may also influence the willingness of regulators to grant necessary rate increases to recover our costs. The deterioration in the financial markets has also resulted in significant declines in the market values of assets held by our pension plan (which impacts the funded status of the plan) and will increase future funding obligations and pension expense. We rely on access to credit from financial institutions for short-term borrowings. We need to maintain access to adequate levels of credit with financial institutions for short-term liquidity. We have a $320 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in April 2011, and a $200 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in November 2009. We cannot predict whether we will have access to credit beyond the expiration dates. The line of credit agreements contain customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. 15 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION We are dependent on our ability to access long-term capital markets. We need to access long-term capital markets to finance capital expenditures, repay maturing long-term debt and obtain additional working capital from time to time. Our ability to access capital on reasonable terms is subject to numerous factors and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain capital on reasonable terms, it may limit or prohibit our ability to finance capital expenditures and repay maturing long-term debt. Our liquidity needs could exceed our short-term credit availability and lead to defaults on various financing arrangements. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. We are subject to commodity price risk. Our utility operations are affected by electric and natural gas commodity price risk. Changes in wholesale energy prices affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations and the market value of derivative assets and liabilities. Electricity prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • demand for electricity, • the number of market participants and the willingness of market participants to trade, • adequacy of generating reserve margins, • scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, • availability of streamflows for hydroelectric generation, • price and availability of fuel for thermal generating plants, and • disruptions of or constraints on transmission facilities. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • amount of North American production and production capacity that can be delivered to our service areas, • level of imports and exports, particularly from Canada by pipeline and to a growing extent by LNG, • inventory levels and regional accessibility, • demand for natural gas, including natural gas as fuel for electric generation, • the number of market participants and the willingness of market participants to trade, • global energy markets, including oil or other natural gas substitutes, and • availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region. Any combination of these factors that results in a shortage of energy generally causes the market price to move upward. Regulators may not grant rates that provide timely or sufficient recovery of our costs or allow a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders. We regularly review the need for retail electric and natural gas rate changes in each state in which we provide service. We expect to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our costs and provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. If regulators grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows. Deferred power and natural gas costs are subject to regulatory review; costs higher than those recovered in base rates reduce cash flows, and it may take several years for us to recover deferred costs. We defer income statement recognition and current recovery from customers of certain power and natural gas costs that are higher than what is currently authorized by regulators. These excess power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and for the potential of disallowance by state regulators. Despite the opportunity to eventually recover a substantial portion of power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows are negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers. Relicensing our hydroelectric facilities located on the Spokane River at a cost-effective level with reasonable terms and conditions may not be possible. We have six hydroelectric plants on the Spokane River, and five of these are under one FERC license. Collectively, 16 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION these five plants are referred to as the Spokane River Project. Since the FERC was unable to issue new license orders prior to the August 1, 2007 (and subsequent August 1, 2008) expiration of the current license, an annual license was issued for all five plants, in effect extending the current license and its conditions until August 1, 2009. The relicensing process for the Spokane River Project is a public regulatory process that involves complex natural resource, recreation and cultural issues. We cannot predict the terms and conditions that will ultimately be imposed by the FERC. The costs of these terms and conditions could have a negative effect on our operating expenses and require significant utility capital expenditures reducing net income and cash flows. We also cannot predict whether the FERC will ultimately issue new licenses or whether we will be willing to meet the licensing requirements to continue to operate the Spokane River Project. We plan to request regulatory approval to recover future licensing costs. However, we cannot be certain that these costs will be recovered through the rate making process. We are subject to credit risk. Credit risk relates to potential losses that we would incur as a result of non-performance of contractual obligations by counterparties to deliver energy or make financial settlements. We often extend credit to counterparties and customers, and we are exposed to the risk of not being able to collect amounts owed to us. Changes in market prices may dramatically alter the size of credit risk with counterparties, even when we establish conservative credit limits. Credit risk includes potential counterparty default due to circumstances: • relating directly to the counterparty, • caused by market price changes, and • relating to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, we may be required to honor the underlying commitment or to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices. Credit risk also involves the exposure that counterparties perceive related to our ability to perform deliveries and settlement under physical and financial energy contracts. These counterparties may seek assurances of performance in the form of letters of credit, prepayment, or cash deposits. Credit exposure can change significantly in periods of price volatility. As a result, sudden and significant demands may be made against our credit facilities and cash. Counterparties’ credit exposure to us is dynamic in normal markets and may change significantly in more volatile markets. The amount of potential default risk to us, from each counterparty, depends on the extent of forward contracts, unsettled transactions and market prices. There is a risk that we may seek additional collateral from counterparties that are unable or unwilling to provide the collateral. Our energy resource management activities may cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations. We engage in active hedging and resource optimization practices; however, we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our energy resource assets or our forecasted net positions for various time horizons. To reduce energy cost volatility and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We use physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We do not cover the entire market price volatility exposure for our forecasted net positions. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual loads and resources typically vary from forecasts, sometimes to a significant degree, which requires additional transactions or dispatch decisions that impact cash flows. Risk management procedures may not prevent losses. We have a risk management policy and control procedures designed to mitigate energy market risks. However, our risk management policy and control procedures cannot prevent material losses in all possible situations or from all potential causes. As a result, there can be no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that could negatively affect our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. Downgrades in our credit ratings could limit our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to acquire energy resources. 17 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION In late 2007 and early 2008, we restored an overall corporate investment grade credit rating with the two major credit rating agencies. Our credit ratings were downgraded during the fourth quarter of 2001, which resulted in an overall corporate credit rating that was below investment grade. The downgrades were due to liquidity concerns primarily related to the significant amount of purchased power and natural gas costs that we incurred in our utility operations. These downgrades increased our debt service costs. Any future downgrades could limit our ability to access capital markets or obtain other financing on reasonable terms. In addition, future downgrades could require us to provide letters of credit and/or collateral to lenders and counterparties. An increase in interest rates could negatively affect our future results of operations and cash flows. We expect utility capital expenditures to be over $210 million in each of 2009 and 2010. In addition to ongoing needs for our utility distribution system, significant projects include the continued enhancement of our transmission system and upgrades to generating facilities. Our forecasts indicate that we will issue new securities to fund a portion of these requirements. Rising interest rates could increase future debt service costs and decrease operating cash flows to the extent we issue new securities to fund these obligations. We are subject to various operational and event risks that are common to the utility industry. Our utility operations are subject to operational and event risks that include: • blackouts or disruptions to distribution, transmission or transportation systems, • forced outages at generating plants, • fuel quality and availability, • disruptions to our information systems and other administrative resources required for normal operations, • weather conditions and natural disasters that can cause physical damage to property, requiring repairs to restore utility service, and • terrorism and other malicious threats. We are currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings, and we are named in multiple lawsuits related to our participation in western energy markets as disclosed in “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Through our utility operations and the prior operations of Avista Energy, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints with respect to energy markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in 2000 and 2001. This allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to: • refund proceedings in California and the Pacific Northwest, • market conduct investigations by the FERC, and • complaints filed by various parties related to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. As a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from us, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information. Any potential refunds or obligations arising from western energy market issues (or any other contingent matters) were retained by Avista Energy as part of its asset sale agreement in June 2007. We are subject to legislation and related administrative rulemaking which may adversely effect our operational and financial performance. We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules published by government agencies, such as the FERC, NERC and the EPA. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be affected by long-term global climate changes. Rising concerns about long-term global climate changes could have a significant effect on our business. Changing temperatures and precipitation, including snowpack conditions, affect the availability and timing of hydroelectric 18 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION generation capacity. Changing temperatures could also increase or decrease customer demand. We continue to monitor legislative developments at both the state and national level for the potential of further restrictions on sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, as well as other greenhouse gas and mercury emissions. Our operations could be affected by changes in laws and regulations intended to mitigate the risk of global climate changes, including restrictions on the operation of our power generation resources. Environmental laws and regulations may have the effect of: • increasing the costs of generating plants, • increasing the lead time for the construction of new generating plants, • requiring modification of our existing generating plants, • requiring existing generating plants to be curtailed or shut down, • increasing the risk of delay on construction projects, • reducing the amount of energy available from our generating plants, and • restricting the types of generating plants that can be built. As such, compliance with such environmental laws and regulations could result in increases to capital expenditures and operating expenses. We have contingent liabilities, as disclosed in “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” and cannot predict the outcome of these matters. We have multiple matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the rate making process. See “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters. Other Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. Environmental issues include, but are not limited to, contamination of certain parcels of land and waters that: • we currently own, • we have formerly owned or have used as a customer, • are adjacent to our property, • are located on the Spokane or Clark Fork Rivers, or • are downstream of our hydroelectric facilities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 19 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION 