Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following are factors that could have a significant impact on the operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows of Avista Corp. and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in Avista Corp.’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. In addition to these risk factors, please also see the “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on Avista Corp.’s operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Avista Corp.’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be significantly affected by weather. Weather has a significant effect on Avista Utilities’ operations, both with respect to customer demand and resulting operating revenues (primarily heating requirements in the winter and cooling requirements in the summer) and electric resource costs (primarily the availability of hydroelectric generation and the tendency for high demand to increase the cost of fuel for electric generation and wholesale electric market prices). Avista Utilities normally experiences its highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Avista Utilities also experiences high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and colder weather in the cooling season will have a negative effect on Avista Utilities’ operating revenues. In addition, a reduction in precipitation (particularly snowpack) will decrease hydroelectric generation capability and increase resource costs and cash outflows to purchase electric resources. Hydroelectric generation has been below normal (based on a 70-year average) for 5 of the past 6 years. Avista Corp. has no way to predict whether this trend of lower than normal hydroelectric generation will continue in the future. Regional precipitation and snowpack conditions can also have a significant effect on the wholesale price of electricity. Avista Corp. is subject to commodity price risk. Both Avista Utilities and Avista Energy are subject to electric and natural gas commodity price risk. Price risk is, in general, the risk of fluctuation in the market price of the commodity needed, held or traded. Changes in wholesale energy prices can affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations, as well as the market value of derivative assets and liabilities and unrealized gains and losses. In the case of electricity, prices can be affected by the adequacy of generating reserve margins, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, availability of streamflows for hydroelectric generation on a regional basis, the price and availability of fuel for thermal generating plants, and disruptions of or constraints on transmission facilities, among other things. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the adequacy of North American production, the level of imports, the level of inventories, the demand for natural gas as fuel for electric generation, global energy markets, and the availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region. In addition, oil prices can influence natural gas and electricity prices, because of the fuel-switching capabilities of certain energy users. Demand changes caused by variations in the weather and other factors can also affect market prices for electricity and natural gas. Any combination of these factors that results in a shortage of energy generally causes the market price to move upward. Increasing energy commodity prices have a significant effect on liquidity for both Avista Utilities and Avista Energy. Avista Utilities has regulatory mechanisms in place that provide for the deferral and recovery of the majority of its power and natural gas supply costs. However, if prices increase, deferral balances will increase, which will negatively affect Avista Corp.’s operating cash flow and liquidity until such costs, with interest, are recovered from customers. Avista Utilities’ deferred power and natural gas costs are subject to regulatory review; costs in excess of levels recovered in base rates reduce cash flows and it may take several years to recover current balances of deferred costs. Avista Utilities defers the recognition in the income statement of certain power and natural gas costs that are in excess of the level currently recovered from its retail customers as authorized by the WUTC, the IPUC and the OPUC. These excess power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with the opportunity for recovery through future retail rates. These deferred power and natural gas costs are 16 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION subject to review by the WUTC, IPUC and OPUC, as applicable, for prudence and as such certain deferred costs may be disallowed by the respective regulatory agencies. Despite the opportunity to eventually recover a substantial portion of power and natural gas costs in excess of the levels currently recovered from retail customers, Avista Utilities’ operating cash flows are negatively affected in the periods in which these costs are paid. Factors that could cause costs to exceed the levels currently recovered from Avista Utilities’ customers include, but are not limited to, higher prices in wholesale markets combined with an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets. Factors beyond Avista Utilities’ control that could result in an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets include, but are not limited to, increases in demand (either due to weather or customer growth), low availability of hydroelectric resources, outages at generating facilities and failure of third parties to deliver on energy or capacity contracts. Avista Utilities currently expects that the recovery of current balances of deferred power and natural gas costs may take several years. Avista Utilities is subject to the risk that regulators will not grant sufficient recovery of its costs and not provide a reasonable rate of return for Avista Corp.’s shareholders. Avista Utilities regularly reviews the need for electric and natural gas rate changes in each state in which it provides service. General rate increases granted since 2002 have been important steps in Avista Corp.’s financial recovery primarily through increased operating revenues and operating cash flows. Avista Utilities anticipates that it will continue to periodically file for general rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover its costs and provide a reasonable return to Avista Corp.’s shareholders. If regulators were to grant substantially lower rate increases than Avista Utilities requests in the future, it could have a negative effect on operating revenues and cash flows, which could result in future downgrades to its credit ratings or prevent Avista Corp. from improving its credit ratings. Avista Corp. is subject to credit risk. Avista Utilities and Avista Energy are subject to credit risk. Credit risk relates to the losses that Avista Utilities and/or Avista Energy would incur as a result of non-performance by counterparties of their contractual obligations to deliver energy or make financial settlements. Avista Utilities and Avista Energy often extend credit to counterparties and customers and are exposed to the risk that they may not be able to collect amounts owed to them. Changes in market prices may dramatically alter the size of credit risk with counterparties, even when conservative credit limits have been established. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances relating directly to it, circumstances caused by market price changes and also the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances that relate to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, Avista Utilities and/or Avista Energy may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. Avista Energy has concentrations of suppliers and customers in the electric and natural gas industries including but not limited to, electric utilities, natural gas distribution companies, and other energy marketing and trading companies. In addition, Avista Energy has concentrations of credit risk related to geographic location, as Avista Energy operates in the western United States and western Canada. These concentrations of counterparties and concentrations of geographic location may negatively affect Avista Energy’s overall exposure to credit risk, because the counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions. Credit risk also involves the exposure that counterparties perceive related to the ability of Avista Utilities and Avista Energy to perform deliveries and settlement under physical and financial energy contracts. These counterparties may seek assurances of performance in the form of letters of credit, prepayment or cash deposits, and, in the case of Avista Energy, parent company (Avista Capital) performance guarantees. In periods of price volatility, the level of exposure can change significantly, with the result that sudden and significant demands may be made against the Company’s capital resource reserves (credit facilities and cash). 17 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Avista Corp.’s commodity trading, marketing and resource management activities may increase the volatility in its results of operations; Avista Corp. cannot, and does not attempt to, fully hedge its assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, and its hedging procedures may not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale. Avista Energy engages in commodity trading and marketing, as well as resource management activities. These activities include entering into financial and physical derivative transactions, and taking speculative positions on future price movements, within established risk management policies. Avista Energy is required by applicable accounting principles to record all derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at estimated fair value. Changes in the estimated fair value of derivatives are immediately recognized in earnings unless they are designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. Changes in the estimated fair value of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions are deferred and recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged transactions occur and are recognized in earnings. Most of Avista Energy’s derivative contracts are marked-to-market and changes in their value caused by fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices, flow through Avista Corp.’s Consolidated Statements of Income. As a result, fluctuations in commodity prices and the corresponding effect on the market value of derivative instruments could have a significant effect on Avista Corp.’s operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. To reduce financial and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, Avista Utilities and Avista Energy routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of their purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as inventories of natural gas. As part of this strategy, Avista Utilities and Avista Energy routinely utilize derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, Avista Utilities and Avista Energy do not always cover the entire exposure of assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent Avista Utilities or Avista Energy have unhedged positions, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on Avista Corp.’s operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. Avista Corp.’s risk management procedures may not prevent losses. Avista Utilities and Avista Energy have risk management policies and control procedures designed to measure and mitigate energy market risks. However, these policies and procedures cannot prevent material losses in all possible situations or from all potential causes. Included in Avista Energy’s risk management policies are value-at-risk (VAR) limits and systematic measurement procedures derived from historic price behavior. VAR measures the expected portfolio loss under hypothetical adverse price movements over a given time interval within a given confidence level. Losses could exceed the VAR predictive amounts if prices deviate significantly from their historic patterns and in cases when actual events fall into the extreme end of the VAR confidence interval. In addition, continuing trends of small losses that may be individually less than VAR limits may cumulatively become significant. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that Avista Utilities’ and Avista Energy’s risk management procedures will prevent losses that could negatively affect its operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. Avista Corp. relies on access to credit from banks. Avista Corp. needs to maintain access to adequate levels of credit with its banks. Avista Corp. has in place a committed line of credit in the amount of $350 million, which is scheduled to expire in December 2009. Avista Corp. cannot predict whether it will have access to credit beyond the expiration date. The line of credit contains customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for Avista Corp. to obtain financing on any reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations, and Avista Corp. would likely be prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock. Avista Energy also needs access to adequate levels of credit from banks and currently has a $145 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in July 2007. Avista Corp. cannot predict whether Avista Energy will have access to credit after the expiration of its current line of credit. Avista Energy’s credit agreement contains customary covenants and default provisions, including but not limited to, covenants to maintain “minimum net working capital” and “minimum net worth”, as well as a covenant limiting the amount of indebtedness that the co-borrowers (Avista Energy and Avista Energy Canada) may incur. The credit agreement also contains covenants and other restrictions related to Avista Energy’s trading limits and positions, including but not limited to, VAR limits, restrictions with respect to changes in risk management policies or volumetric limits, and limits on exposure related to hourly and daily trading of electricity. These covenants, certain counterparty agreements and market liquidity conditions result in Avista Energy maintaining certain levels of cash and therefore effectively limit the amount of cash dividends that are available for distribution to Avista Capital and ultimately Avista Corp. If Avista Energy were 18 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION unable to continue to obtain credit from banks or other lenders, Avista Energy would likely not have sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations. Any default on the line of credit or other financing arrangements of Avista Corp. or any of its significant subsidiaries (including Avista Energy) could result in cross-defaults to other agreements of such entity, and/or to the line of credit or other financing arrangements of any other of such entities, and could induce vendors and other counterparties to demand collateral. A downgrade in Avista Corp.’s credit rating could limit its ability to obtain financing or adversely affect the terms of financing. Avista Corp.’s credit ratings were downgraded during the fourth quarter of 2001 resulting in an overall corporate credit rating that is below investment grade. The downgrades were due to liquidity concerns primarily related to the significant amount of purchased power and natural gas costs incurred and the resulting increase in debt levels and debt service costs. Avista Corp. continues to work towards restoring an overall corporate investment grade credit rating. However, any future downgrades could limit Avista Corp.’s ability to issue debt securities or obtain other financing at reasonable interest rates. In addition, future downgrades could require Avista Corp. to provide letters of credit and/or collateral to lenders and counterparties. An increase in interest rates could negatively affect Avista Corp.’s future results of operations and cash flows. During the years 2006 through 2008, utility capital expenditures are currently expected to be in the range of $160 million to $175 million per year. In addition to continuing needs for Avista Utilities’ distribution system, significant projects include the continued enhancement of Avista Utilities’ transmission system and upgrades to generating facilities. Avista Corp. also has approximately $567 million of long-term debt maturities and mandatory preferred stock redemptions between 2006 and 2008, with the majority occurring in 2007 and 2008. Avista Corp.’s forecasts indicate that it will need to issue new securities to fund a significant portion of these requirements. In 2004, Avista Corp. entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in market fixed interest rates, which are relatively low compared to historical interest rates, for $200 million of forecasted debt issuances. However, with respect to the remaining debt that Avista Corp. expects to issue, rising interest rates could increase Avista Corp.’s future debt service costs and decrease operating cash flows. Avista Corp. is subject to various operational and event risks, which are common to the utility industry. Avista Utilities, Avista Corp.’s regulated utility operation, is subject to operational and event risks including, among others, increases or decreases in load demand, blackouts or disruptions to transmission or transportation systems, fuel quality, forced outages at generating plants and disruptions to information systems and other administrative tools required for normal operations. Avista Utilities also has exposure to natural disasters and terrorism threats that can cause physical damage to its property, requiring repairs to restore utility service. Avista Corp. may not be able to relicense its hydroelectric facilities located on the Spokane River at a cost-effective level with reasonable terms and conditions. Avista Corp. owns and operates six hydroelectric plants on the Spokane River, and five of these (Long Lake, Nine Mile, Upper Falls, Monroe Street and Post Falls) are under one Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) license and are referred to as the Spokane River Project. The sixth, Little Falls, is operated under separate Congressional authority and is not licensed by the FERC. The license for the Spokane River Project expires on August 1, 2007; Avista Corp. filed its license application with the FERC in July 2005. Avista Corp. has requested the FERC to consider a license for Post Falls that is separate from the other four hydroelectric plants. This is due to the fact that Post Falls presents more complex issues that may take longer to resolve than those dealing with the rest of the Spokane River Project. The FERC may impose certain environmental, operating and other conditions in connection with the new licenses that could result in significant capital expenditures, higher operating costs and/or reduced hydroelectric generation capability. Avista Corp. plans to request regulatory approval to recover these costs. However, Avista Corp. cannot estimate the magnitude of these costs or provide certainty that they will be recovered through the rate making process. In 2001, Avista Corp. received a 45-year operating license from the FERC for the Cabinet Gorge Hydroelectric Generating Project and the Noxon Rapids Hydroelectric Generating Project, which represent approximately 80 percent of Avista Corp.’s current hydroelectric generating capability. The Spokane River facilities represent approximately 20 percent of Avista Corp.’s current hydroelectric generating capability. 19 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Avista Corp. is currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings and named in multiple lawsuits with respect to its participation in Western energy markets as disclosed in “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Avista Energy and Avista Utilities are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints with respect to power markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in western power markets in 2000 and 2001, which allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to, refund proceedings and hearings in California and the Pacific Northwest, market conduct investigations by the FERC, and complaints and cross-complaints filed by various parties with respect to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. In addition, a class action shareholder complaint has been filed against Avista Corp. and certain current and former executive officers based on alleged misconduct in western power markets. As a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from Avista Corp. and its subsidiaries, which could result in a negative effect on Avista Corp.’s results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information. Avista Corp. has contingent liabilities as disclosed in “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Avista Corp. cannot predict the outcome of these matters. Avista Corp. has multiple matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. Avista Corp. cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or the extent, if any, that amounts payable by Avista Corp. may be recoverable through the rate making process. See “Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters. Lake Coeur d’Alene Matter Avista Corp. is liable for compensation (not yet determined as to amount) for the use of portions of the bed and banks of Lake Coeur d’Alene and the St. Joe River, which were determined to be property of the Coeur d’Alene Tribe of Idaho. Avista Corp. is engaged with the Tribe in discussions with respect to past and future compensation (which may include interest) for use of the portions of the bed and banks of the Lake that are owned by the Tribe. If the parties cannot agree on the amount of compensation, the matter could result in litigation. Montana Hydroelectric Litigation A lawsuit was filed in Montana against all private owners of hydroelectric dams in Montana, including Avista Corp., alleging that the hydroelectric facilities are located on state-owned riverbeds and the owners have never paid compensation to the state’s public school trust fund. The lawsuit was originally filed by private parties and was subsequently joined by other public parties, including the Attorney General of the State of Montana. Various motions for summary judgment and counter claims are pending in federal and state courts. Environmental Matters Avista Corp. is subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities with respect to its past, present and future operations. Environmental issues include, but are not limited to, contamination of certain parcels of land that Avista Corp. currently owns, has formerly owned or has used as a customer, contamination of certain parcels of land and waters adjacent to Avista Corp.’s property, contamination of certain portions of the Spokane River as well as the levels of dissolved gas in waters downstream of Avista Corp.’s hydroelectric facilities and the resulting impact on free ranging fish. Avista Corp. is subject to the risk from the potential effects of any legislation or administrative rulemaking. Avista Corp. has been and is expected to continue to be impacted by legislation at the national and state level, as well as by administrative rules promulgated by government agencies, such as the FERC, NERC and the EPA. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on Avista Corp.’s operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Avista Corp. does not have any unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 20 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION 