Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We require substantial liquidity to run our business. We require a substantial amount of liquidity to operate our business and fund the growth of our automobile finance operations. Among other things, we use such liquidity to acquire automobile contracts, pay securitization costs and fund related accounts, satisfy working capital requirements and pay operating expenses and interest expense. We depend on warehouse financing and securitizations to fund our operations and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain warehouse financing or access the public capital markets in the future. If we are unable to access acceptable warehouse financing or the capital markets, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS We depend on our warehouse facility to fund our automobile finance operations in order to finance the purchase of automobile contracts pending a new securitization. Our business strategy requires that such financing continues to be available to us. Our primary source of operating liquidity comes from a $300 million warehouse facility which is currently set to expire in October 2009. We use this facility to fund our automobile finance operations in order to finance the purchase of automobile contracts pending securitization. Whether we may obtain further advances under this facility during its term depends on, among other things, the performance of the automobile receivables that are pledged under this facility and whether we maintain compliance with certain financial covenants contained in the sale and servicing agreement. The performance, timing and amount of cash flows from automobile contracts vary based on a number of factors, including: • the yields received on automobile contracts; • the rates and amounts of loan delinquencies, defaults and net credit losses; • how quickly and at what price repossessed vehicles can be resold; and • how quickly new automobile finance branches become cash flow positive. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain further advances under this facility during its term or that this facility will continue to be available beyond the current expiration date at reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain advances under this facility for any reason and we are then unable to replace this facility or arrange for other types of interim financing, we will have to curtail or cease our automobile contract purchasing activities, sell receivables on a whole-loan basis or otherwise revise the scale of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We depend on securitizations to generate cash. We rely on our ability to aggregate and pledge receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash proceeds for repayment of our warehouse facility and to create availability to purchase additional automobile contracts. Our ability to complete securitizations of our automobile contracts is affected by a number of factors, including: • conditions in the securities markets, generally; • conditions in the asset-backed securities market, specifically; • yields of our portfolio of automobile contracts; • the credit quality of our portfolio of automobile contracts; and • our ability to obtain credit enhancement. The asset-backed securities market has been and is currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions. Current conditions in the asset-backed securities market include reduced liquidity, increased risk premiums for issuers, reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities, particularly those securities backed by non-prime collateral, financial stress and rating agency downgrades impacting the financial guaranty insurance providers, and a general tightening of availability of credit. These conditions, which may increase our cost of funding, reduce or even eliminate our access to the asset-backed securities market, may continue or worsen in the future. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in selling securities in the asset-backed securities market, at least in the near term, or that that our warehouse facility will be adequate to fund our automobile contract purchasing activities until the disruptions in the securitization markets subside or that the cost of debt will allow us to operate at profitable levels. Since we are highly dependent on the availability of the asset-backed securities market to finance our operations, disruptions in this market or any adverse change or delay in our ability to access the market would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Continued reduced investor demand for asset-backed securities such as our asset-backed securities could result in our having to hold automobile contracts until investor demand improves, but our capacity to hold such automobile contracts is not unlimited. As we confront a reduced demand for our asset-backed securities, it could require us to reduce the amount of automobile contracts that we will be able to purchase. Continued adverse market conditions could also result in increased costs and reduced margins earned in connection with our securitization transactions. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to securitize a sufficient number of our contracts in a timely manner, our liquidity position would be adversely affected, as we will require continued execution of securitization transactions in order to fund our future liquidity needs. In addition, unanticipated delays in closing a securitization would also increase our interest rate risk by increasing the warehousing period for our contracts. There can be no assurance that funding will be available to us through these sources or, if available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. If these sources of funding are not available to us on a regular basis for any reason, including the occurrence of events of default, deterioration in loss experience in the underlying pool of receivables or otherwise, we will be required to curtail or cease our automobile contract purchasing activities, sell receivables on a whole-loan basis or otherwise revise the scale of our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business and financial objectives. The terms of our securitizations depend on credit enhancement and there is no assurance we will be able to continue to obtain credit enhancement. Our securitizations to date have utilized credit enhancement in the form of financial guaranty insurance policies in order to achieve “AAA/Aaa” ratings for the asset-backed securities issued to investors. These ratings reduce the costs of securitizations compared to alternative forms of financing currently available to us and enhance the marketability of these transactions to investors in asset-backed securities. However, our financial guaranty insurance providers are not required to insure our future securitizations, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so or that our future securitizations will be similarly rated. The willingness of a financial guaranty insurance provider to insure our future securitizations is subject to many factors outside our control including the financial guaranty insurance provider’s own rating considerations. Further, investor perceptions of financial guaranty insurance providers and claims-paying capacity may adversely impact the marketability of insured asset-backed securities. A downgrading of any of our financial guaranty insurance providers’ credit ratings or the inability to structure alternative credit enhancements, such as senior subordinated transactions, for our securitization program could result in higher interest costs for our future securitizations and larger initial and/or target credit enhancement requirements. The absence of a financial guaranty insurance policy may also impair the marketability of our securitizations. These events could have a material adverse effect on the cost and availability of capital to finance automobile contract purchases which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness. Our ability to make payments of principal or interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, including the performance of automobile receivables that are either pledged under our warehouse facility or transferred to securitization trusts, and our ability to enter into additional securitization transactions as well as other debt financings. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows in the future to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any refinancings will be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. The inability to refinance our existing debt or to obtain additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. If we cannot comply with the requirements in our debt instruments, then our lenders may increase our borrowing costs or require us to repay immediately all of the outstanding debt. If our debt payments were accelerated, our assets might not be sufficient to fully repay our debts. These lenders may require us to use all of our available cash to repay our debt, foreclose upon their collateral or prevent us from making payments to other creditors on certain portions of our outstanding debt. We may not be able to obtain a waiver of these provisions or refinance our debt, if needed. In such case, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would suffer. Our automobile finance business would be harmed if we cannot maintain relationships with independent dealers and franchisees of automobile manufacturers. We purchase automobile contracts primarily from automobile dealers. Many of our competitors have long-standing relationships with used automobile dealers and may offer dealers or their customers other forms 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS of financing that we currently do not provide. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our relationships with dealers, we may be unable to purchase contracts in the volume and on the terms that we anticipate and consequently our automobile finance business would be materially and adversely affected. Because we loan money to credit-impaired borrowers, we may have a higher risk of delinquency and default. Substantially all of our automobile contracts involve loans made to individuals with impaired or limited credit histories, or higher debt-to-income ratios than are permitted by traditional lenders. Loans made to borrowers who are restricted in their ability to obtain financing from traditional lenders generally entail a higher risk of delinquency, default and repossession, and higher losses than loans made to borrowers with better credit. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the automobile securing the loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria and collection methods enable us to manage the higher risks inherent in loans made to non-prime borrowers, no assurance can be given that such criteria or methods will afford adequate protection against such risks. If we experience higher losses than anticipated, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future. Factors that could affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal variations in the volume of automobile contracts purchased, which historically tend to be higher in the first and second quarters of the year; • interest rate spreads; • credit losses, which historically tend to be higher in the third and fourth quarters of the year; and • operating costs. As a result of such fluctuations, our quarterly results may be difficult to predict, which may create uncertainty surrounding the market price for our securities. In particular, if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors in a future quarter, the market price of our securities could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our key personnel. We are dependent upon the continued services of our key employees. In addition, our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified branch managers. The loss of the services of any key employee, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Competition may adversely affect our performance. Our business is highly competitive. Competition in our markets can take many forms, including convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, marketing and distribution channels, amount and terms of the loan and interest rates. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Fluctuations in interest rates and general and local economic conditions also may affect the competition we face. Competitors with lower costs of capital have a competitive advantage over us. If we expand into new geographic markets, we will face additional competition from lenders already established in those markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these lenders. Our failure to compete successfully would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We may be unable to maintain or sustain our growth. We have realized substantial growth in our automobile finance business since our inception in 1996. Consequently, we are vulnerable to a variety of business risks generally associated with rapidly growing companies. In the future, our rate of growth will be dependent upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to expand the number of branches, attract qualified branch managers, and expand our 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS relationships with independent and franchised dealers of used automobiles. In addition, we may broaden our product offerings to include additional types of consumer loans or may enter other specialty finance businesses. Our growth strategy requires that we successfully obtain and manage acceptable warehouse financing and access the capital markets. It also requires additional capital and human resources as well as improvements to our infrastructure and management information systems. Our failure to implement our planned growth strategy or the failure of our automated systems, including a failure of data integrity or accuracy, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. In addition, further tightening of funding available in the credit markets may reduce or even eliminate our ability to grow. If we fail to satisfy certain covenants in our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers, we may lose our rights to service the receivables included in our securitization trusts. Our agreements with our financial guaranty insurance providers provide that our servicing rights with respect to the receivables included in a securitization trust may be terminated by the applicable financial guaranty insurance provider if (i) certain performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default and cumulative net loss on the receivables included in each securitization trust were to exceed specified limits, (ii) we breach our obligations under the servicing agreement, (iii) the financial guaranty insurance provider is required to make payments under a policy, or (iv) certain bankruptcy or insolvency events were to occur. As of December 31, 2007, no such servicing right termination events have occurred with respect to any of the trusts formed by us. The termination of any or all of our servicing rights would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. An interruption in or breach of our security systems could subject us to liability. If third parties or our employees are able to interrupt or breach our network security systems or otherwise misappropriate our customers’ personal information or loan information, or if we give third parties or our employees improper access to our customers’ personal information or loan information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure online transmission of confidential consumer information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms that we use to protect sensitive customer transaction data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We are subject to various consumer claims and litigation. As a consumer finance company, we are subject to various consumer claims and litigation seeking damages and statutory penalties, based upon, among other things, usury, disclosure inaccuracies, wrongful repossession, violations of bankruptcy stay provisions, certificate of title disputes, fraud, breach of contract and discriminatory treatment of credit applicants. Some litigation against us could take the form of class action complaints by consumers. As the assignee of automobile contracts originated by dealers, we may also be named as a co-defendant in lawsuits filed by consumers principally against dealers. The damages and penalties claimed by consumers in these types of matters can be substantial. The relief requested by the plaintiffs varies but can include requests for compensatory, statutory and punitive damages. We believe that we have taken prudent steps to address and mitigate the litigation risks associated with our business activities. However, any adverse resolution of litigation pending or threatened against us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Ownership and Organizational Structure The ownership of our common stock is concentrated, which may result in conflicts of interest and actions that are not in the best interests of all of our shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, our Chairman, Guillermo Bron, beneficially owned 5,741,251 shares of our common stock, representing 36.5% of our total outstanding common stock. As a result, our Chairman will have substantial influence over our management and affairs, including the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the election and removal of our Board of Directors, any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the adoption of measures that could delay or prevent a change of control or impede a merger. This concentration of ownership could adversely affect the price of our securities or lessen any premium over market price that an acquirer might otherwise pay. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. The results of our operations and our financial condition are principally dependent upon the business activities of our principal consolidated subsidiaries, UACC and UABO. In addition, our ability to fund our operations, meet our obligations for payment of principal and interest on our outstanding debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock are dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is also subject to the restrictions of the California Corporations Code. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $10.3 million of junior subordinated debentures issued to a subsidiary trust, UPFC Trust I, which, in turn, had $10.0 million of company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities outstanding. The junior subordinated debentures mature in 2033. However, we may call the debt any time on or after July 31, 2008 and may call it before July 31, 2008 if certain events occur as described in the subordinated debt agreement. The redemption price is par plus accrued and unpaid interest unless we make a redemption call before July 31, 2008. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to repay that debt at the required time. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Any distribution of funds to us from our subsidiaries is subject to statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions, the level of the subsidiaries’ earnings and various other business considerations. Risks Related to Regulatory Factors The scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex state and local regulations and laws. Because we operate in 39 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, for all of these jurisdictions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and has increased significantly in response to issues arising with respect to subprime mortgage and other consumer lending, and in some cases there is conflict among jurisdictions. From time to time, legislation and regulations are enacted which increase the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and taxation of financial institutions and financial services providers are frequently made in the U.S. Congress, in the state legislatures, and by various regulatory agencies, and also have increased significantly due to the subprime mortgage and other consumer lending issues. This legislation may change our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of us or any of our subsidiaries. Furthermore, as our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify, accurately interpret and properly train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of non-compliance with these laws and regulations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We believe that we maintain all material licenses and permits required for our current operations and are in substantial compliance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain all requisite licenses and permits, and the failure to satisfy those and other regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Factors Outside Our Control Adverse economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our business is affected directly by changes in general economic conditions, including changes in employment rates, prevailing interest rates and real wages. During periods of economic slowdown or recession such as we are currently experiencing, we may experience a decrease in demand for our financial products and services, an increase in our servicing costs, a decline in collateral values or an increase in delinquencies and defaults. A decline in collateral values and an increase in delinquencies and defaults increase the probability and severity of losses. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, defaults or losses would materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our margin spread and the profitability of our lending activities. Our results of operations depend to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest received by us on the automobile contracts acquired and the interest payable under our credit facilities and further to the asset-backed securitization notes payable issued in our securitizations. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions, which are beyond our control. Several factors affect our ability to manage interest rate risk, such as the fact that automobile contracts are purchased at fixed interest rates, while amounts borrowed under our warehouse facility bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustment to reflect prevailing rates for short-term borrowings. In addition, the interest rates charged on the automobile contracts purchased from dealers are limited by statutory maximums, restricting our opportunity to pass on increased interest costs. Also, the interest rate demanded by investors in securitizations is a function of prevailing market rates for comparable transactions and the general interest rate environment. Because the contracts purchased by us have fixed rates, we bear the risk of spreads narrowing because of interest rate increases during the period from the date the contracts are purchased until the pricing of our securitizations of such contracts. Decreases in wholesale auction proceeds could adversely impact our recovery rates. We generally sell repossessed automobiles at wholesale auction markets located throughout the United States. Auction proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles and other recoveries usually do not cover the net outstanding balance of the automobile contracts, and the resulting deficiencies are charged off. Decreased auction proceeds resulting from the depressed prices at which used automobiles may be sold during periods of economic slowdown, recession or otherwise will result in higher credit losses for us. Furthermore, wholesale prices for used automobiles may decrease as a result of significant liquidations of rental or fleet inventories and from increased volume of trade-ins due to promotional financing programs offered by new vehicle manufacturers. If our recovery rates decline, our financial position, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS 