ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. The Company has a recent history of defaulting on its bank covenants which, if repeated, could force the Company to seek bankruptcy protection. The Company has in the recent past been in default on the financial and certain other covenants contained in its loan and security agreement with its current senior lender, Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”), and been forced to seek waivers and/or forbearance agreements from SVB to address such defaults. Should this pattern repeat itself, no assurance can be given that the Company will be successful in obtaining such waivers and/or forbearance agreements in the future. Failure to obtain waivers and/or forbearance agreements from SVB for future defaults would result in SVB having the right to accelerate all indebtedness owed it at the time of the default. In that case, the Company would not likely have the funds to make these payments to SVB. As the Company’s most senior secured lender, SVB would then have a right to foreclose on, and take possession and control over, all of the assets of the Company, including the Company’s cash and accounts receivable. If SVB exercises this right, the Company would be forced to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws which will likely render the Company’s equity securities, including the Company’s issued and outstanding common stock, valueless. Our ability to continue as a going concern may be contingent upon our ability to raise capital. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We believe we currently have adequate capital resources to fund anticipated cash needs through March 31, 2012. However, our current liquidity position is constrained and looks to remain that way for the near-term. While we have taken a number of steps to address and improve this situation (as explained elsewhere in this Report), there can be no assurance that these steps will result in a meaningful improvement to our current and near-term liquidity position or that additional steps will not be required. One such additional step that may become necessary involves raising additional equity and/or debt capital. Any equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financing, if available, will increase expenses and may involve restrictive covenants. We may be required to raise additional capital at times and in amounts that are uncertain. In addition, there may be limited access to capital due to being listed on OTC Bulletin Board. Under such circumstances, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or are required to raise it on undesirable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, which could require us to: 5 • curtail our operations significantly; • sell significant assets; • seek arrangements with strategic partners or other parties that may require us to relinquish significant rights to products, technologies or markets; or • explore other strategic alternatives including a merger or sale of US Dataworks; and/or • in a worst-case scenario, seek protection from our creditors under federal bankruptcy laws, which would likely render our equity securities, including our issued and outstanding common stock valueless. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We have a significant amount of debt coming due in fiscal 2014 that we may not be able to repay. We have approximately $3.1 million of affiliate debt that we owe certain company insiders that is due and payable on January 1, 2014, all of which is secured by a lien on all of our properties and assets, including all of our accounts receivable. In addition, under certain circumstances, we are required or permitted to defer interest payments on this debt. However, the deferred interest will be payable when the condition allowing us to make such payments is met. As of the date of this report, we had $146,942 in such accrued but unpaid interest on this debt and that amount is growing by approximately $29,000 each month thereafter. While we expect to build enough cash to pay off these obligations as they come due, such may not be the case. If we are not able to make the balloon principle payment or the deferred interest payment when due, we will need to refinance this debt or arrange to have the maturity dates extended. While we expect to be able to refinance this debt or reach an agreement to extend the maturity date of this debt if necessary, there can be no assurances that this will in fact occur. In such case, failure to refinance or extend the maturity dates of this debt will give the secured holders of such debt the right to foreclose on our properties and assets, including our accounts receivables. If these foreclosure rights are exercised, we will be forced to file for protection available under federal bankruptcy laws, which will likely render our equity securities, including our issued and outstanding common stock, valueless. We have a general history of losses and may not operate profitably in the future. We have incurred losses for the last five fiscal years ended March 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $65,718,567. We believe that our planned growth and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to promote our brand name and gain clients and expand our relationships with clients for whom we would provide licensing agreements and system integration. Accordingly, we intend to invest heavily in marketing, strategic partnership, development of our client base and development of our marketing technology and operating infrastructure. If we are not successful in promoting our brand name and expanding our client base, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue to operate our business. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors that could cause us to fail to achieve our revenue or profitability expectations, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results can vary significantly depending upon a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: · market acceptance of and changes in demand for our products and services; · gain or loss of clients or strategic relationships; · announcement or introduction of new software, services and products by us or by our competitors; · our ability to build brand recognition; · timing of sales to customers; · price competition; · our ability to upgrade and develop systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth; 6 · our ability to attract and integrate new personnel in a timely and effective manner; · our ability to introduce and market products and services in accordance with market demand; · changes in governmental regulation; · reduction in or delay of capital spending by our clients due to the effects of terrorism, war and political instability; and · general economic conditions, including economic conditions specific to the financial services industry. In addition, from time to time we derive a portion of our revenue from agreements signed at the end of the reporting period. Our operating results could suffer if the timing of these agreements is delayed. Depending on the type of agreements we enter into, we may not be able to recognize revenue under these agreements in the reporting period in which they are signed. These factors could negatively affect demand for our products and services, and our future operating results. Most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. We may be unable to adjust spending rapidly to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall, which could harm our operating results. Because of the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, we do not have the ability to predict future operating results with any certainty. Because of the above factors, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of results of operation as an indication of future performances. We may not be able to develop or maintain our relationships with distribution partners, which may cause our cash flow to decline. We may not be able to maintain or develop new relationships with distribution channel partners. These strategic relationships are a core component of our sales and distribution strategy and are a part of our growth strategy. The loss of a distribution channel partner could harm our operating results. Specifically, we are heavily relying on and investing in OptimizedNow, LLC to cause the sales and marketing program for our cloud-based Clearingworks platform solution to be successful. Failure of these sales and marketing efforts could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. Because a small number of customers have historically accounted for and may in future periods account for substantial portions of our revenue, our revenue could decline because of delays of customer orders or the failure to retain customers. We have a small number of customers that account for a significant portion of our revenue. Our revenue could decline significantly because of a delay in signing agreements with a single customer or the failure to retain an existing customer. We may not obtain additional customers. The failure to obtain additional customers and the failure to retain existing customers will harm our operating results. If general economic and business conditions do not improve, we may experience decreased revenue or lower growth rates. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for computer software and services in the product segments in which we compete. Because our sales are primarily to major financial services and government customers, our business also depends on general economic and business conditions. A softening of demand caused by a weakening of the economy may result in decreased revenue or lower growth rates. As a result, we may not be able to effectively promote future license revenue growth in our application business. We may not be able to attract, retain or integrate key personnel, which may prevent us from successfully operating our business. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or attract other qualified personnel in the future. Our success will depend upon the continued service of key management personnel. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team or our failure to attract and retain other key personnel could disrupt operations and have a negative effect on employee productivity and morale and harm our operating results. We operate in markets that are intensely and increasingly competitive, and if we are unable to compete successfully, our revenue could decline and we may be unable to gain and may lose market share. The market for financial services software is highly competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, product offerings and evolving demands of the marketplace. Some of our competitors have: · longer operating histories; · larger installed customer bases; 7 · greater name recognition and longer relationships with clients; and · significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than US Dataworks. Our competitors may also be better positioned to address technological and market developments or may react more favorably to technological changes. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: · the breadth and quality of services; · creative design and systems engineering expertise; · pricing; · technological innovation; and · understanding clients’ strategies and needs. Competitors may develop or offer strategic services that provide significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services we offer. If we fail to gain market share or lose existing market share, our financial condition, operating results and business could be adversely affected and the value of the investment in us could be reduced significantly. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully. We may be responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of our client’s sensitive information, and any unauthorized use or disclosure could result in substantial damages and harm our reputation. The services we provide for our clients may grant us access to confidential or proprietary client information. Any unauthorized disclosure or use could result in a claim against us for substantial damages and could harm our reputation. Our contractual provisions attempting to limit these damages may not be enforceable in all instances or may otherwise fail to adequately protect us from liability for damages which would have a negative impact on our operating results. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our business may suffer, we may lose revenue or we may be required to spend significant time and resources to defend our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual procedures to protect our intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business may suffer from the piracy of our technology and the associated loss in revenue. Any patents that we may hold may not sufficiently protect our intellectual property and may be challenged by third parties. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property. These infringement claims or any future claims could cause us to spend significant time and money to defend our intellectual property rights, redesign our products or develop or license a substitute technology. We may be unsuccessful in acquiring or developing substitute technology and any required license may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In the event of litigation to determine the validity of any third party claims or claims by us against such third party, such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of the outcome of such litigation. Furthermore, other parties may also independently develop similar or competing products that do not infringe upon our intellectual property rights. We may be unable to consummate future potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate acquired businesses or investments or foreign operations with our business, which may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention and slow our ability to expand the range of our technologies and products. We intend to continue to expand the range of our technologies and products, and we may acquire or make investments in additional complementary businesses, technologies or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments, each of which could slow our growth strategy. We have no prior history or experience in investing in or acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and therefore may have difficulties completing such transactions or realizing the benefits of such transactions, or they may have a negative effect on our business. Such investments or acquisitions could require us to devote a substantial amount of time and resources and could place a significant strain on our management and personnel. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue equity based instruments, which would dilute your interest in us. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. 8 We have warrants outstanding with anti-dilution provisions that may affect our ability to raise capital without adding additional dilution. The Company currently has warrants outstanding pursuant to which the holders thereof could purchase a total of 4,651,162 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $0.43 per share (the “Investor Warrants”). Except in certain limited circumstances, if the Company issues or sells shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) at a price (or a conversion or exchange price) below $0.43 per share, (i) the exercise price of the Investor Warrants would be reduced to that lower sale (or conversion or exchange) price and (ii) the number of shares underlying the Investor Warrants would be increased by the ratio of the current per share warrant exercise price ($0.43) to the lower adjusted exercise price. While the Company has not issued or sold shares of Common Stock or other securities that triggered these anti-dilution provisions, there can be no assurance that it will not do so in the future. If the Company does issue or sell shares of Common Stock or other securities that trigger these anti-dilution provisions, the dilutive effect of such an issuance will be exacerbated by the additional dilutive effect of the adjustments to the exercise price of, and the number of shares of Common Stock underlying, the Investor Warrants. The existence of the Investor Warrants could make investments in the Company less attractive. Our recent sales efforts may not produce the desired results. The Company has recently supplemented its sales infrastructure to focus on generating business from new customers. The Company’s future success, particularly its ability to grow revenue, will depend largely upon the success of this effort. While these new sales efforts have introduced a number of new customers into the Company’s sales pipeline, there can be no assurance that this sales pipeline will ultimately result in new customers. Failure of this new sales effort to produce new and profitable revenue sources will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future operating results. The market for our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations and restrictions, which could impair liquidity and make trading difficult. Because our common stock is no longer listed on the NYSE Alternext US (formerly the AMEX) and because it continues to trade at a market price of less than $5.00 per share, it is deemed to be a “penny stock” under SEC rules and regulations. This classification adversely affects the market liquidity for the Company’s common stock by placing a number of restrictions and requirements on brokers and dealers in purchasing, or effecting the purchase of, penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to process the additional paperwork, make the additional disclosures and/or take the other additional actions required under the regulations in connection with purchasing our common stock. This in turn will have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in our common stock and make it more difficult for a holder of our common stock to sell his or her shares at the desired price. The Company has discovered material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in “Part II, Item 9,A. Controls and Procedures,” the Company has identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. The Company has taken actions to remediate the material weaknesses. Any failure in the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of the Company’s financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial reporting or could cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Management concluded that, as of March 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 