ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Expanding upon the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. In addition, not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. - 16 - Economic Conditions Our results are affected by general economic conditions in the United States and Canada. A poor economy has historically led to a decline in both business and leisure travel and to lower demand for rental vehicles resulting in lower industry revenues. We have the flexibility to reduce our rental fleet size in the event of an unexpected reduction in rental demand, which partially offsets the related reduction in revenues. The disposal of vehicles for which we retain the used car market value risk will be subject to prevailing market prices. Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry There is intense competition in the vehicle rental industry, especially on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition. The vehicle rental industry primarily consists of eight major brands, all of which compete strongly for rental customers. A significant increase in industry capacity or a reduction in overall demand could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase rental rates. Dependence on Air Travel We get approximately 90% of our rental revenues from airport locations and airport arriving customers. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry and airline restructuring through bankruptcy may cause airlines to reduce flight schedules which could adversely impact the number of airline passengers. A significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Nevada represented over 60% of our total rental revenue in 2005. Reductions in leisure travel to these destinations resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, general economic conditions or other factors would have a material impact on our results. Vehicle Supply Our vehicle supply agreement with DaimlerChrysler extends through model year 2010 and we generally purchase 80% to 90% of our vehicles from DaimlerChrysler. Under the vehicle supply agreement, we must purchase 75% of our vehicles from DaimlerChrysler up to certain targeted volumes and DaimlerChrysler has agreed to provide us certain minimum volumes of vehicles. The vehicle supply agreement also requires that 80% of the vehicles at the targeted volumes be vehicles covered by a manufacturer program that guarantees the value of the vehicle at the time of sale. Our yearly vehicle requirements usually exceed the amounts that DaimlerChrysler has agreed to provide under the vehicle supply agreement. Historically, DaimlerChrysler has agreed to sell us more vehicles than we must buy under the vehicle supply agreement. We have also acquired vehicles from other manufacturers to meet our vehicle requirements. We depend on DaimlerChrysler to continue to provide vehicles above the amounts included in the vehicle supply agreement. Alternatively, we have the ability to purchase vehicles from other manufacturers to satisfy our ongoing vehicle requirements. Each year, we negotiate these purchase agreements that are outside the vehicle supply agreement. The inability of any of the major vehicle manufacturers to sell enough vehicles to the industry could adversely affect our results. Market Risk in Vehicle Disposition We have generally retained the used car market value risk on 15% to 30% of our vehicles and may increase this percentage in the future. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are dependent on the strength of used car prices at the time of sale. A large unexpected decline in used car prices would have a significant adverse impact on our results. - 17 - Third Party Internet Sites The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2005, we got 62% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, with 38% coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. The remaining 24% of non-tour reservations were provided by third party Internet sites. No single third party Internet site provides more than 6% of our non-tour reservations. Future changes in the way travel is sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. In March 2006, we increased the level of self-insurance to $4.0 million per occurrence with an additional aggregate exposure of $7.0 million and increased the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability to $5.0 million. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. A significant change in amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. Vehicle Financing We depend on the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset backed financing programs. We use our cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility to provide more collateral for these financing programs at different levels for vehicles covered by manufacturer programs that guarantee the value of the vehicle at time of sale and vehicles not covered by these manufacturer programs. The collateral requirements are lower for those vehicles covered by manufacturer programs particularly when the manufacturer has a strong credit rating. Significant changes to our vehicle mix by manufacturer or adverse changes to the credit ratings of the related manufacturers could materially increase the amount of collateral required to finance our vehicle fleet. In addition, any difficulty in accessing the asset backed financing markets could materially impact our ability or the cost of financing our vehicle fleet. Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Table of Contents 