Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could materially affect MKS’ business, financial condition or results of operations and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. Our business depends substantially on capital spending in the semiconductor industry which is characterized by periodic fluctuations that may cause a reduction in demand for our products. We estimate that approximately 52%, 57% and 68% of our net sales for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers, and we expect that sales to such customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales. Our 8 Table of Contents business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor device manufacturers, which in turn depend upon the demand for semiconductors. Historically, the semiconductor market has been highly cyclical and has experienced periods of overcapacity, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment which may result in lower gross margins due to reduced absorption of manufacturing overhead. In addition, many semiconductor manufacturers have operations and customers in Asia, a region that in past years has experienced serious economic problems including currency devaluations, debt defaults, lack of liquidity and recessions. Reductions in demand for the products manufactured by semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers in 2008 and early 2009 adversely affected our business. The global economic uncertainty prolonged a steep downturn in semiconductor capital equipment spending and adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product revenues during 2009 for our semiconductor and capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers decreased by 46%. We cannot be certain of the timing or magnitude of future semiconductor industry downturns. A decline in the level of orders as a result of any downturn or slowdown in the semiconductor capital equipment industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. MKS is exposed to risks associated with the weak global economy. The severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weak global economy, contributed to slowdowns in the industries in which MKS operates in 2008 and 2009. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause certain MKS customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing equipment or service orders, which may affect MKS’ ability to convert backlog to sales and may reduce MKS’ net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in lower sales for MKS. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for MKS. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for MKS’ products. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for MKS to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. If MKS is not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from a difficult macroeconomic environment, MKS’ business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. In addition, certain of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. Therefore, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected by economic slowdowns, such as the ongoing global economic crisis, and other risks associated with international sales. International sales include sales by our foreign subsidiaries, but exclude direct export sales. International sales accounted for approximately 46%, 43% and 39%, of net sales for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, a significant portion of which were sales to Japan. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are likely to continue to vary significantly, which may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. A substantial portion of our shipments occurs shortly after an order is received and therefore we operate with a low level of backlog. As a result, a decrease in demand for our products from one or more customers could occur with limited advance notice and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. A significant percentage of our expenses is relatively fixed and based in part on expectations of future net sales. The inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any shortfall would magnify the adverse impact of a shortfall in net sales on our results of operations. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our net sales include: • the timing of the receipt of orders from major customers; • shipment delays; 9 Table of Contents • disruption in sources of supply; • seasonal variations in capital spending by customers; • production capacity constraints; and • specific features requested by customers. In addition, our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected due to charges incurred in a particular quarter, for example, relating to inventory obsolescence, warranty or asset impairments. As a result of the factors discussed above, it is likely that we may in the future experience quarterly or annual fluctuations and that, in one or more future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In any such event, the price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline significantly. The loss of net sales to any one of our major customers would likely have a material adverse effect on us. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 36%, 38% and 46% of our net sales for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by these customers, including reductions due to market or competitive conditions, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, one customer, Applied Materials, accounted for approximately 12%, 19% and 20%, respectively, of our net sales. None of our significant customers, including Applied Materials, has entered into an agreement requiring it to purchase any minimum quantity of our products. The demand for our products from our semiconductor capital equipment customers depends in part on orders received by them from their semiconductor device manufacturer customers. Attempts to lessen the adverse effect of any loss or reduction of net sales through the rapid addition of new customers could be difficult because prospective customers typically require lengthy qualification periods prior to placing volume orders with a new supplier. Our future success will continue to depend upon: • our ability to maintain relationships with existing key customers; • our ability to attract new customers; • our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner for existing and new customers; and • the successes of our customers in creating demand for their capital equipment products that incorporate our products. As part of our business strategy, we have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult and costly to integrate, may be disruptive to our business, may dilute stockholder value or may divert management attention. We made several acquisitions in the years 2000 through 2002 and, more recently in 2006 and 2007. As a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, possible internal control weaknesses of the acquired companies, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that will not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution without achieving the desired accretion to our business. Further, our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. 10 Table of Contents As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have added several different decentralized operating and accounting systems, resulting in a complex reporting environment. We will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all our operations. In order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations, we are currently implementing a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. We expect to continue to implement the ERP system in phases over the next few years. Any future implementations may risk potential disruption of our operations during the conversion periods and the implementations could require significantly more management time and higher implementation costs than currently estimated. An inability to convince semiconductor device manufacturers to specify the use of our products to our customers that are semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers would weaken our competitive position. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Our competitive success often depends upon factors outside of our control. For example, in some cases, particularly with respect to mass flow controllers, semiconductor device manufacturers may direct semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers to use a specified supplier’s product in their equipment. Accordingly, for such products, our success will depend in part on our ability to have semiconductor device manufacturers specify that our products be used at their semiconductor fabrication facilities. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in changing established relationships of competitors that already have a large installed base of products within such semiconductor fabrication facilities. If our products are not designed into successive generations of our customers’ products, we will lose significant net sales during the lifespan of those products. New products designed by semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers typically have a lifespan of five to ten years. Our success depends on our products being designed into new generations of equipment for the semiconductor industry. We must develop products that are technologically advanced so that they are positioned to be chosen for use in each successive generation of semiconductor capital equipment. If customers do not choose our products, our net sales may be reduced during the lifespan of our customers’ products. In addition, we must make a significant capital investment to develop products for our customers well before our products are introduced and before we can be sure that we will recover our capital investment through sales to the customers in significant volume. We are thus also at risk during the development phase that our products may fail to meet our customers’ technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by a competitive product or alternative technology solution. If that happens, we may be unable to recover our development costs. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid demand shifts which are difficult to predict. As a result, our inability to expand our manufacturing capacity in response to these rapid shifts may cause a reduction in our market share. Our ability to increase sales of certain products depends in part upon our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity for such products in a timely manner. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or to manage such expansion effectively, our customers could implement our competitors’ products and, as a result, our market share could be reduced. Because the semiconductor industry is subject to rapid demand shifts which are difficult to foresee, we may not be able to increase capacity quickly enough to respond to a rapid increase in demand. Additionally, capacity expansion could increase our fixed operating expenses and if sales levels do not increase to offset the additional expense levels associated with any such expansion, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A material amount of our assets represents goodwill and intangible assets, and our net income will be reduced if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. As of December 31, 2009, our goodwill and intangible assets, net, represented approximately $149.5 million, or 19% of our total assets. Goodwill is generated in our acquisitions when the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets we acquire. Goodwill is subject to an impairment analysis at least annually based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Intangible assets, which relate primarily to the 11 Table of Contents customer technologies, relationships and patents and trademarks acquired by us as part of our acquisitions of other companies, are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of the intangible asset might not be recoverable. During 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $205.0 million related to goodwill and intangible assets. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If market and economic conditions or business performance deteriorate, the likelihood of the Company recording an impairment charge will increase, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The market for our products is highly competitive. Principal competitive factors include: • historical customer relationships; • product quality, performance and price; • breadth of product line; • manufacturing capabilities; and • customer service and support. Although we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to continue to do so. We encounter substantial competition in most of our product lines. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have. In some cases, competitors are smaller than we are, but well established in specific product niches. We may encounter difficulties in changing established relationships of competitors with a large installed base of products at such customers’ fabrication facilities. In addition, our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products. Competitors may develop products that offer price or performance features superior to those of our products. If our competitors develop superior products, we may lose existing customers and market share. We have significant foreign operations, and outsource certain operations offshore, which pose significant risks. We have significant international sales, service, engineering and manufacturing operations in Europe, Israel and Asia, and have outsourced a portion of our manufacturing to Mexico. We may expand the level of manufacturing and certain other operations that we do offshore in order to take advantage of cost efficiencies available to us in those countries. However, we may not achieve the significant cost savings or other benefits that we anticipate from this program. These foreign operations expose us to operational and political risks that may harm our business, including: • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in the value of currencies and high levels of inflation, particularly in Asia and Europe; • changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including, but not limited to, labor unions; • reduced or less certain protection for intellectual property rights; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • increases in duties and taxation; • costs associated with compliance programs for import and export regulations; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • changes in export duties and limitations on imports or exports; 12 Table of Contents • expropriation of private enterprises; and • unexpected changes in foreign regulations. If any of these risks materialize, our operating results may be adversely affected. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations may lead to lower operating margins or may cause us to raise prices, which could result in reduced sales. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations and we could experience losses with respect to our hedging activities. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, most sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold and the currency they receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and may enter into local currency purchased options to reduce currency exposure arising from intercompany sales of inventory. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results of operations. As a global company, MKS is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. MKS’ future annual and quarterly effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: applicable tax laws; composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; and/or valuation of MKS’ deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, MKS is subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. MKS regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although MKS believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in MKS’ historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect MKS’ financial condition and results of operations. Key personnel may be difficult to attract and retain. Our success depends to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of a number of key employees and officers, particularly those with expertise in the semiconductor manufacturing and similar industrial manufacturing industries. The loss of key employees or officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, financial, managerial and marketing personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our proprietary technology is important to the continued success of our business. Our failure to protect this proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive position. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 370 U.S. patents, 239 foreign patents and had 123 pending U.S. patent applications that expire at various dates through 2029. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we cannot be certain that: • we will be able to protect our technology adequately; • competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently; • any of our pending patent applications will be issued; • domestic and international intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights; or • third parties will not assert that our products infringe patent, copyright or trade secrets of such parties. 13 Table of Contents Protection of our intellectual property rights may result in costly litigation. Litigation may be necessary in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. We are, from time to time, involved in lawsuits enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights and may be involved in such litigation in the future. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need to expend significant time and expense to protect our intellectual property regardless of the validity or successful outcome of such intellectual property claims. If we lose any litigation, we may be required to seek licenses from others or change, stop manufacturing or stop selling some of our products. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate for reasons over which we have no control. The stock market has from time to time experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Prices of securities of technology companies have been especially volatile and have often fluctuated for reasons that are unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. The market price of shares of our common stock has fluctuated greatly since our initial public offering and could continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If we were the subject of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our dependence on sole, limited source suppliers, and international suppliers, could affect our ability to manufacture products and systems. We rely on sole, limited source suppliers and international suppliers for a few of our components and subassemblies that are critical to the manufacturing of our products. This reliance involves several risks, including the following: • the potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components; • reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components; and • the potential inability of our suppliers to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. We believe that in time we could obtain and qualify alternative sources for most sole, limited source and international supplier parts. Seeking alternative sources for these parts could require us to redesign our systems, resulting in increased costs and likely shipping delays. We may be unable to redesign our systems, which could result in further costs and shipping delays. These increased costs would decrease our profit margins if we could not pass the costs to our customers. Further, shipping delays could damage our relationships with current and potential customers and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, our business could be harmed. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including environmental regulations and regulations relating to the design and operation of our products. We must ensure that the affected products meet a variety of standards, many of which vary across the countries in which our systems are used. For example, the European Union has published directives specifically relating to power supplies. In addition, the European Union has issued directives relating to regulation of recycling and hazardous substances, which may be applicable to our products, or to which some customers may voluntarily elect to adhere to. In addition, China has adopted, and certain other Asian countries have indicated an intention to adopt similar regulations. We must comply with any applicable regulation adopted in connection with these types of directives in order to ship affected products into countries that adopt these types of regulations. We believe we are in compliance with current applicable regulations, directives and standards and have obtained all necessary permits, approvals and authorizations to conduct our business. However, 14 Table of Contents compliance with future regulations, directives and standards, or customer demands beyond such requirements, could require us to modify or redesign certain systems, make capital expenditures or incur substantial costs. If we do not comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards: • we could be subject to fines; • our production could be suspended; or • we could be prohibited from offering particular systems in specified markets. Some provisions of our restated articles of organization, as amended, our amended and restated by-laws and Massachusetts law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. Anti-takeover provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market price of the common stock. Such provisions may also inhibit increases in the market price of the common stock that could result from takeover attempts. For example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our board of directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock, including the loss of voting control to others. In addition, our amended and restated by-laws provide for a classified board of directors consisting of three classes. The classified board could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change was effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results or may impact our related business practice. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 