Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could materially affect MKS’ business, financial condition or results of operations and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. Our business depends substantially on capital spending in the semiconductor industry which is characterized by periodic fluctuations that may cause a reduction in demand for our products. Approximately 68%, 62% and 61% of our net sales for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers, and we expect that sales to such customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor device manufacturers, which in turn depends upon the demand for semiconductors. Historically, the semiconductor market has been highly cyclical and has experienced periods of overcapacity, resulting in significantly reduced demand for capital equipment which may result in lower gross margins due to reduced absorption of manufacturing overhead. In addition, many semiconductor manufacturers have operations and customers in Asia, a region that in past years has experienced serious economic problems including currency devaluations, debt defaults, lack of liquidity and recessions. The cyclicality of the semiconductor market is demonstrated by the changes in sales to semiconductor capital equipment and device manufacturers in past years. For example, our sales to semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers and semiconductor device manufacturers increased by 14% in 2013, but decreased by 20% and 8% in 2012 and 2011, respectively, compared to the prior year. We cannot be certain of the timing or magnitude of future semiconductor industry downturns or recoveries. A decline in the level of orders as a result of any additional downturn or slowdown in the semiconductor capital equipment industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risks associated with instability in the financial markets and any weakness in the global economy. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause certain of our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing equipment or service orders, which may affect our ability to convert backlog to sales and may reduce our net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, resulting in lower sales for us. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense for us. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for our products. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from a difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. International sales accounted for approximately 46%, 49% and 52%, of net sales for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, a substantial portion of which were sales to China, Japan, Korea and other Asian countries and we anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales. In addition, certain of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. Therefore, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected by economic slowdowns affecting the global economy generally, as well as economic slowdowns in particular regions, such as Asia, Europe, or specific countries such as Japan and Korea. 10 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are likely to continue to vary significantly, which may result in volatility in the market price of our Common Stock. A substantial portion of our shipments occurs shortly after an order is received and therefore, we operate with a low level of backlog. As a result, a decrease in demand for our products from one or more customers could occur with limited advance notice and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. A significant percentage of our expenses is relatively fixed and based in part on expectations of future net sales. The inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any shortfall would magnify the adverse impact of a shortfall in net sales on our results of operations. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our net sales include: • the timing of the receipt of orders from major customers; • shipment delays; • disruption in sources of supply; • seasonal variations in capital spending by customers; • production capacity constraints; and • specific features requested by customers. In addition, our quarterly operating results may be adversely affected due to charges incurred in a particular quarter, for example, relating to inventory obsolescence, warranty, bad debt or asset impairments. As a result of the factors discussed above, it is likely that we may in the future experience quarterly or annual fluctuations and that, in one or more future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In any such event, the price of our Common Stock could fluctuate or decline significantly. The loss of net sales to any one of our major customers would likely have a material adverse effect on us. Our top ten customers accounted for approximately 46%, 42% and 41% of our net sales for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During the years 2013, 2012 and 2011, one customer, Applied Materials, accounted for approximately 17%, 14% and 14%, respectively, of our net sales and another customer Lam Research, accounted for 12%, 10% and 9%, respectively. The loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by these customers, including reductions due to market or competitive conditions, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. None of our significant customers have entered into an agreement with us requiring it to purchase any minimum quantity of our products. The demand for our products from our semiconductor capital equipment customers depends on the cyclicality of our served markets, specifically semiconductor device manufacturer customers. Attempts to lessen the adverse effect of any loss or reduction of net sales through the rapid addition of new customers could be difficult because prospective customers typically require lengthy qualification periods prior to placing volume orders with a new supplier. Our future success will continue to depend upon: • our ability to maintain relationships with existing key customers; • our ability to attract new customers and satisfy any required qualification periods; • our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner for existing and new customers; and • the successes of our customers in creating demand for their capital equipment products that incorporate our products. 11 Table of Contents As part of our business strategy, we have entered into and may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions that may be difficult and costly to integrate, may be disruptive to our business, may dilute stockholder value or may divert management attention. We have made acquisitions and, as a part of our business strategy, we may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions. Acquisitions are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, possible internal control weaknesses of the acquired companies, expenses related to the acquisition and potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we may be required to re-evaluate our growth strategy, and we may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete proposed acquisitions that may not generate benefits for us. In addition, with future acquisitions, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. We could also issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause significant stockholder dilution, or obtain debt financing, which could reduce our future cash flow from operations, without achieving the desired accretion to our business. Further, our prior acquisitions and any future acquisitions may not ultimately help us achieve our strategic goals and may pose other risks to us. As a result of our previous acquisitions, we have several different decentralized operating and accounting systems. We will need to continue to modify our accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to provide consistency across all of our operations. In order to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations, we are currently implementing a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system. We expect to continue to implement the ERP system in phases over the next few years. Any future implementations may risk potential disruption of our operations during the conversion periods and the implementations could require significantly more management time and higher implementation costs than currently estimated. An inability to convince semiconductor device manufacturers to specify the use of our products to our customers that are semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers would weaken our competitive position. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Our competitive success often depends upon factors outside of our control. For example, in some cases, particularly with respect to mass flow controllers, semiconductor device manufacturers may direct semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers to use a specified supplier’s product in their equipment. Accordingly, for such products, our success will depend in part on our ability to have semiconductor device manufacturers specify that our products be used at their semiconductor fabrication facilities. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in changing established relationships of competitors that already have a large installed base of products within such semiconductor fabrication facilities. If our products are not designed into successive generations of our customers’ products, we will lose significant net sales during the lifespan of those products. New products designed by capital equipment manufacturers typically have a lifespan of five to ten years. Our success depends on our products being designed into new generations of equipment. We must develop products that are technologically advanced so that they are positioned to be chosen for use in each successive generation of capital equipment. If customers do not choose our products, our net sales may be reduced during the lifespan of our customers’ products. In addition, we must make a significant capital investment to develop products for our customers well before our products are introduced and before we can be sure that we will recover our capital investment through sales to the customers in significant volume. We are thus also at risk during the development phase that our products may fail to meet our customers’ technical or cost requirements and may be replaced by a competitive product or alternative technology solution. If that happens, we may be unable to recover our development costs. 12 Table of Contents The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid demand shifts which are difficult to predict. As a result, our inability to expand our manufacturing capacity in response to these rapid shifts may cause a reduction in our market share. Our ability to increase sales of certain products depends in part upon our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity for such products in a timely manner. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or to manage such expansion effectively, our customers could implement our competitors’ products and, as a result, our market share could be reduced. Because the semiconductor industry is subject to rapid demand shifts which are difficult to foresee, we may not be able to increase capacity quickly enough to respond to a rapid increase in demand. Additionally, capacity expansion could increase our fixed operating expenses and if sales levels do not increase to offset the additional expense levels associated with any such expansion, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect our ability to meet customer demand and lead to higher costs, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Our business depends on its timely supply of equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of our customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers, including contract manufacturers. Cyclical industry conditions and the volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for us and for companies throughout our supply chain. We may also experience significant interruptions of our manufacturing operations, delays in our ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: • volatility in the availability and cost of materials, including rare earth elements; • information technology or infrastructure failures; and • natural disasters or other events beyond our control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where we conduct manufacturing. In addition, if we need to rapidly increase our business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this may exacerbate any interruptions in our manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on our working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for our products is different than expected, we may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If we purchase inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if our customers reduce or delay orders, we may incur excess inventory charges. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A material amount of our assets represents goodwill and intangible assets, and our net income would be reduced if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. As of December 31, 2013, our goodwill and intangible assets, net, represented approximately $164.0 million, or 13.5% of our total assets. Goodwill is generated in our acquisitions when the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets we acquire. Goodwill is subject to an impairment analysis at least annually based on the fair value of the reporting unit. Intangible assets, which relate primarily to the developed technologies, customer relationships, patents and trademarks and in-process research and development acquired by us as part of our acquisitions of other companies, are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of the intangible asset might not be recoverable. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If market and economic conditions or business performance deteriorate, the likelihood of the Company recording an impairment charge would increase, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry. The market for our products is highly competitive. Principal competitive factors include: • historical customer relationships; • product quality, performance and price; • breadth of product line; • manufacturing capabilities; and • customer service and support. Although we believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to continue to do so. We encounter substantial competition in most of our product lines. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have. In some cases, competitors are smaller than we are, but well established in specific product niches. We may encounter difficulties in changing established relationships of competitors with a large installed base of products at such customers’ fabrication facilities. In addition, our competitors can be expected to continue to improve the design and performance of their products. Competitors may develop products that offer price or performance features superior to those of our products. If our competitors develop superior products, we may lose existing customers and market share. We have significant foreign operations, and outsource certain operations offshore, which pose significant risks. We have significant international sales, service, engineering and manufacturing operations in Europe, Israel and Asia, and have outsourced a portion of our manufacturing and service to a subcontractor in Mexico. In the future, we may expand the level of manufacturing and certain other operations that we perform offshore in order to take advantage of cost efficiencies available to us in those countries. However, we may not achieve the significant cost savings or other benefits that we would anticipate from moving manufacturing and other operations to a lower cost region. These foreign operations expose us to operational and political risks that may harm our business, including: • political and economic instability; • fluctuations in the value of currencies, particularly in Asia and Europe; • changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including, but not limited to, the formation of labor unions; • reduced or less certain protection for intellectual property rights; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; • burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • increases in duties and taxation; • costs associated with compliance programs for import and export regulations; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • changes in export duties and limitations on imports or exports; • expropriation of private enterprises; and • unexpected changes in foreign regulations. If any of these risks materialize, our operating results may be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The Company may have risks associated with export violations in its Shanghai office. In May 2012, an employee from the our Shanghai, China subsidiary was arrested as part of a U.S. government investigation into violations of U.S. law, including providing false information to obtain U.S. export licenses for certain MKS pressure transducers. U.S. government authorities have made it clear that MKS is not a target of the investigation. MKS is cooperating with the government’s investigation. In addition, MKS conducted its own investigation into these matters. Although MKS has taken corrective human resources actions and has implemented additional export compliance procedures, we cannot be certain these efforts will be sufficient to avoid similar situations. While MKS does not expect any of the alleged violations to have a material adverse effect upon its business, the Company cannot be certain of the outcome of the governmental investigation, which could include the identification of other violations, fines, penalties, restrictions on export activities or other governmental actions. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations may lead to lower operating margins or may cause us to raise or reduce prices, which could result in reduced sales. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations and we could experience losses with respect to our hedging activities. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could require us to increase or decrease prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to unfavorable currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, most sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold and the currency they receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce currency exposure arising from intercompany sales of inventory. However, we cannot be certain that our efforts will be adequate to protect us against significant currency fluctuations or that such efforts will not expose us to additional exchange rate risks. Changes in tax rates or tax regulation could affect results of operations. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the: applicable tax laws; composition of pre-tax income in countries with differing tax rates; and/or valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination by the Internal Revenue Service, state, local and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Key personnel may be difficult to attract and retain. Our success depends to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of a number of key employees and officers, particularly those with expertise in the semiconductor manufacturing and similar industrial manufacturing industries. The loss of key employees or officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, financial, managerial and sales and marketing personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 15 Table of Contents Our proprietary technology is important to the continued success of our business. Our failure to protect this proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive position. As of December 31, 2013, we owned 338 U.S. patents, 589 foreign patents and had 93 pending U.S. patent applications that expire at various dates through 2033. Although we seek to protect our intellectual property rights through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, we cannot be certain that: • we will be able to protect our technology adequately; • competitors will not be able to develop similar technology independently; • any of our pending patent applications will be issued; • domestic and international intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property rights; or • third parties will not assert that our products infringe patent, copyright or trade secrets of such parties. Protection of our intellectual property rights may result in costly litigation. Litigation may be necessary in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. We are, from time to time, involved in lawsuits enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We may need to expend significant time and expense to protect our intellectual property regardless of the validity or successful outcome of such intellectual property claims. If we lose any litigation, we may be required to seek licenses from others, pay royalties, change, stop manufacturing or stop selling some of our products. The market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate for reasons over which we have no control. The stock market has from time to time experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Prices of securities of technology companies have been especially volatile and have often fluctuated for reasons that are unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. Historically, the market price of shares of our Common Stock has fluctuated greatly and could continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the objects of securities class action litigation. If we were the object of securities class action litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We may not pay dividends on our Common Stock. Holders of our Common Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends when and if they are declared by our board of directors. Although we have declared cash dividends on our Common Stock for the past few years, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our cash dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. Our dependence on sole, limited source suppliers, and international suppliers, could affect our ability to manufacture products and systems. We rely on sole, limited source suppliers and international suppliers for a few of our components and subassemblies that are critical to the manufacturing of our products. This reliance involves several risks, including the following: • the potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components; • reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components; and • the potential inability of our suppliers to develop technologically advanced products to support our growth and development of new systems. 16 Table of Contents We believe we could obtain and qualify alternative sources for most sole, limited source and international supplier parts however, the transition time may be long. Seeking alternative sources for these parts could require us to redesign our systems, resulting in increased costs and likely shipping delays. We may be unable to redesign our systems, which could result in further costs and shipping delays. These increased costs would decrease our profit margins if we could not pass the costs to our customers. Further, shipping delays could damage our relationships with current and potential customers and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to governmental regulations. If we fail to comply with these regulations, our business could be harmed. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign regulations, including environmental regulations and regulations relating to the design and operation of our products. We must ensure that the affected products meet a variety of standards, many of which vary across the countries in which our systems are used. For example, the European Union has published directives specifically relating to power supplies. In addition, the European Union has issued directives relating to regulation of recycling and hazardous substances, which may be applicable to our products, or to which some customers may voluntarily elect to adhere to. China has adopted, and certain other Asian countries have indicated, an intention to adopt similar regulations. We must comply with any applicable regulation adopted in connection with these types of directives in order to ship affected products into countries that adopt these types of regulations. We believe we are in compliance with current applicable regulations, directives and standards and have obtained all necessary permits, approvals and authorizations to conduct our business. However, compliance with future regulations, directives and standards, or customer demands beyond such requirements, could require us to modify or redesign certain systems, make capital expenditures or incur substantial costs. If we do not comply with current or future regulations, directives and standards: • we could be subject to fines; • our production could be suspended; or • we could be prohibited from offering particular systems in specified markets. New regulations and customer demands related to conflict minerals and hazardous materials may adversely affect us The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use in our products of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, whether or not the components of our products are manufactured by us or third parties. To meet the initial disclosure requirements, which begin in 2014, we began due diligence in 2013 to determine the sources of the conflict minerals in our very broad product portfolio. In addition, several of our customers have recently requested us to disclose to them our use of numerous other hazardous materials in our products. Our supply chain is very complex and we may be unable to verify the origin for all metals used in our products. This new requirement could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of components we use in our products. In addition, there are additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements and customer requests, such as costs related to our due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals or any other hazardous materials used in our products. We may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free and/or free of numerous other hazardous materials. Some provisions of our restated articles of organization, as amended, our amended and restated by-laws and Massachusetts law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. Anti-takeover provisions could diminish the opportunities for stockholders to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then current market price of the Common Stock. Such provisions may also inhibit increases in the market price of the Common Stock that could result from takeover attempts. For 17 Table of Contents example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our board of directors, without further stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our Common Stock, including the loss of voting control to others. In addition, our amended and restated by-laws provide for a classified board of directors consisting of three classes. The classified board could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change was effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Such changes may adversely affect our reported financial results or may impact our related business practice. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 