Risk Factors section. No likelihood of dividends. The Company plans to retain all available funds for use in its business, and therefore does not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to its securities in the foreseeable future. Hence investors in the Common Stock should not expect to receive any distribution of cash dividends with respect to such securities. No assurance of liquidation distribution. If the Company were to be liquidated or dissolved, holders of shares of its capital stock would be entitled to share ratably in its assets only after satisfaction of the Company's liabilities. After satisfaction of those liabilities and satisfaction of any liquidation preference with respect to any then outstanding senior securities of the Company, the holders of the Common Stock would share ratably in any remaining assets of the Company. There can be no assurance that there would be any remaining assets or any distribution to shareholders after the payment of third party obligations and any liquidation preferences. We will incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. The Company expects these rules and regulations to increase its legal, audit and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a public company, we are required to create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, the Company has incurred additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. The Company also expects these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. 19 If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our Common Stock. The Company is in the process of assessing the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is required in connection with the filing of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 assuming the Company does not qualify as an accelerated filer. While management anticipates expending significant resources in an effort to complete this important project, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the Company’s on-going assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company may discover “material weaknesses” in its internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines “significant deficiency” as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. While the Company has not identified any material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting that would cause it to deem such internal controls ineffective, the Company will retain additional resources and will work to obtain the requisite training for others in the Company to remediate any deficiencies. However, the Company cannot provide any assurance that additional testing of its internal controls will not uncover additional deficiencies that, when aggregated with any other unremediated deficiencies, would result in a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. In the event that a material weakness is identified, the Company will employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses that is identified. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires the Company to anticipate and react to changes in its business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy its reporting obligations as a public company. The Company cannot assure you that the measures it will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that the Company will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete an assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that it may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm its operating results, cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in its financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of the Company’s internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that the Company may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock. 20 Potential issuance of additional stock. At the Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders held on November 14, 2005, shareholders approved a resolution permitting the Company to issue up 4,059,009 shares of Common Stock in one or more private placements to be completed on or before November 13, 2006. At an Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for November 7, 2006, management will seek shareholder approval to issue up to 4,272,009 shares of Common Stock pursuant to one or more private placement, acquisitions or equity credit lines to be completed on or before October 30, 2007. In December 2002, a majority of the Company’s shareholders approved a resolution authorizing the Company to issue up to 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock from time to time (or a total of 705,243 shares) in connection with the Company’s Stock Option Plan (the “Option Plan”). At an Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for November 7, 2006, management will seek shareholder approval for an amendment to the Option Plan to, among other things, increase the maximum aggregate number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Option Plan, to an amount equal to 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (or a total of 854,402 shares). The Company currently has reserved 705,243 shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Option Plan. As of the date of this Annual Report, 600,000 of such options are issued. On September 6, 2006 Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with 1211115 Alberta Ltd. (“1211115”) and the shareholders of 1211115 to acquire all the issued and outstanding shares of 1211115. The Company agreed to issue to the shareholders of 1211115 an aggregate of 1,850,001 units of the Company ("Units"), each Unit comprised of one share of Common Stock with an attributed price of CDN $1.25 and one common share purchase warrant ("Warrant"), each Warrant entitling the holder to purchase one share of Common Stock at a price of CDN $1.40 for a period of three years from the date of issuance (the “Transaction”). Under the terms of the agreement, 1211115 advanced CDN $650,000 to the Company (the "Advance") upon execution of the agreement, which amount is immediately repayable to 1211115 in the event the Transaction is not completed by October 2, 2006 or such later date as agreed to by the parties. If not repaid as required, the Advance is converted to a demand promissory note, the repayment of which is secured by the unencumbered assets of the Company. Furthermore in the event that the Proposed Transaction terminates at no fault of 1211115 or the shareholders of 1211115 then 650,000 compensation warrants, each compensation warrant entitling the holder to purchase one share of Common Stock at a price of CDN $1.40 for a period of three years from the date of issuance, will be issued to the shareholders of 1211115. (See Item 4.A - “History and Development - Oil and Gas Operations”, Item 7.B - “Related Party Transactions” and Item10.C - “Material Contracts” below). Pursuant to the acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Great Northern Oil & Gas Inc., a private Alberta corporation (“Great Northern Oil”) on May 31, 2006 the Company issued to the shareholders of Great Northern Oil (the “Holders”) a CDN$200,000 convertible secured debenture due November 30, 2011 with interest at a rate of 5% per annum. Principal and interest payments are payable quarterly on the first day of January, April, July and October (the “Debenture”). (See Item 4.A. - “History and Development - Oil and Gas Operations”, Item 5.G. - Critical Accounting Estimates - Valuation of Convertible Debenture and Item 10.C. - “Material Contracts” below). The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock could adversely reduce the proportionate ownership and voting rights and powers of the present holders of the Common Stock, and could also result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of Common Stock. There can be no assurance that the Company will not issue additional shares of its Common Stock. -- 21 ITEM 