ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Expanding upon the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. In addition, not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Economic and Financial Market Conditions Our results are dependent on general economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada, our principal markets, and on the U.S. automotive industry in particular. The current significant challenges facing the U.S. and Canadian economies and the highly uncertain global economic outlook have materially adversely affected consumer confidence and spending levels. We believe that these conditions are likely to persist throughout 2009. These conditions and severe credit market disruptions, among other factors, have also materially adversely affected the global automotive industry and the principal automotive manufacturers in the U.S. in particular, including Chrysler, our principal supplier. As detailed below and in the risk factors that follow, these conditions have adversely affected our results and prospects for the foreseeable future and have necessitated significant actions to mitigate the impact of the current environment. For example, we have reduced our rental fleet requirements in response to declining demand and undertaken significant reductions in our workforce. We cannot assure you, however, that these actions will be successful in mitigating revenue declines resulting from reduced demand. -16- During 2008, there were significant disruptions in the financial markets that affected our access to funding. In 2008, our ability to access the commercial paper market was impaired and we were entirely unable to access that market in the fourth quarter. We believe our access to financing will continue to be severely limited in 2009. In particular, we believe that our peak vehicle financing purchases for 2009 may be constrained as a result of lack of bank credit capacity to replace certain of our financing arrangements. The remarketing of Non-Program Vehicles is subject to prevailing market prices, and the general decline in economic conditions has also adversely affected values realized on the disposition of Non-Program Vehicles in the wholesale market in 2008. Whether, when and to what extent the used car market will rebound remains uncertain. If the current challenging environment persists, our financial condition and results could be further adversely affected. The economic environment has also affected some of our customers and franchisees. In 2008, an important tour operator customer filed for bankruptcy. Additionally, some of our franchisees have experienced financial challenges and a limited number of them either closed or consolidated their operations. These circumstances have resulted in reduced fee revenue to the Company and a potential for increased bad debt exposure. Depending on the depth and duration of the current recession, we may lose other customers or our franchisees may become unable to meet their payment obligations to us. Liquidity Considerations The current economic environment has placed pressure on major aspects of our business, with the result that our primary objective has been to preserve liquidity and enhance operating cash flow to ensure that we maintain maximum flexibility to address persistent adverse conditions. The actions we have taken to position the Company to meet this objective, such as reductions in our workforce and in our overall rental fleet size, may be inadequate if economic conditions deteriorate further or if there is a significant disruption in the U.S. automotive industry requiring a restructuring of any of the U.S. automotive companies, including Chrysler. In that event, we may need to take additional material actions that could cause disruptions to our business, operations and prospects, which could in turn further adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity. Chrysler Restructuring or Bankruptcy Our principal supplier, Chrysler, has requested significant federal assistance and is exploring other means to restructure so as to remain financially viable. It is highly uncertain whether federal assistance will be available as requested or at all or whether other alternatives available to it will prove successful. Any restructuring of Chrysler could have significant implications for its business with its customers, including us. Moreover, Chrysler has stated that, in the absence of further federal assistance, it may seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws, which could result in a court-supervised restructuring or liquidation of Chrysler. Our business could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that repayment of our receivables from Chrysler, resulting mainly from residual value guarantees on Program Vehicles, are delayed or compromised in any restructuring or liquidation of Chrysler. The residual value of Chrysler vehicles in our fleet would likely also be adversely affected as consumers lose confidence in Chrysler’s ability to meet warranty obligations. A restructuring or bankruptcy of Chrysler could also disrupt vehicle supply to our business. We expect that for the 2009 model year, Chrysler vehicles will continue to represent a substantial majority of our U.S. fleet. We have taken actions to mitigate these exposures. For example, we have significantly reduced receivables outstanding from Chrysler and our purchases of Program Vehicles during 2008 to reduce our exposure to Chrysler’s credit, and we are continuing to increase the proportion of risk vehicles in our fleet. We have also sought to diversify our suppliers, including through a new secondary supply agreement with Ford Motor Company. These actions and others that we plan to take if Chrysler’s viability continues to worsen may not be adequate to address our exposure to Chrysler or ensure an adequate supply of vehicles to operate our business. Moreover, our business could be adversely affected by consumer perceptions of our business and the quality of our rental fleet, given our long-standing association with Chrysler. If Chrysler failed to meet its payment or supply obligations to us as and when required, our operations could be significantly disrupted and our results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. -17- Bond Insurer Insolvency or Bankruptcy Our obligations under our medium term note facilities are supported by monoline or bond insurers (“Monolines”), which have faced significant financial challenges and credit downgrades as a result of the current constrained financial markets. An insolvency or bankruptcy of any of these Monolines could trigger an amortization of our obligations under the affected medium term notes, which would require a more rapid repayment of those notes, and could also (subject to certain conditions) result in cross-defaults under certain of our other financing agreements. Given our current lack of access to the capital and credit markets, we believe that we would be unable to refinance the affected notes and would be required to take immediate action to preserve our operations. These actions could include extending the holding period of our vehicles to maximize their useful life prior to sale, as well as further reductions of our operations and workforce. These and other actions we may take may not be successful to enable us to meet our obligations under the affected notes and, even if successful, they would likely have an adverse affect on our results and cash flow available to fund ongoing operations. If we curtailed our operations, our ability to compete effectively would also be adversely affected. Vehicle Financing and Capital Market Access We depend on the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset backed medium term note programs. We use cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility to provide enhancement collateral for these asset backed medium term note programs. Collateral requirements vary depending on whether the vehicle is a risk vehicle or is covered by a manufacturer's Residual Value Program. As we increase the level of risk vehicles in the fleet, we also increase our risk to fluctuations in the residual value of those risk vehicles due to volatility in the used vehicle market. If the residual value of our risk vehicles declines significantly or we experience cumulative losses on disposition of a specified percentage of our fleet, we would be required to increase the level of collateral enhancement in the vehicle financing facility, which would reduce our liquidity available for other purposes. Collateral requirements are lower for vehicles covered by Residual Value Programs when the manufacturer also maintains an investment grade credit rating. Adverse changes to the credit ratings of the related manufacturers have materially increased the amount of collateral required to finance our vehicle fleet, and we expect these collateral levels to remain high for the foreseeable future. Volatility in the markets and the credit downgrades of the Monolines have limited our access to the asset backed medium term note market. Historically we have accessed the medium term note market each year to replace maturing notes, and continued disruption in the asset backed medium term note market could materially impact our ability to finance and further increase the cost of financing vehicles in the future. If the markets have not rebounded and we are unable to replace maturing notes, we may not have sufficient financing for vehicles in 2010 and beyond. A bankruptcy filing by one or more of the Monolines could result in accelerating the payoff schedule of a portion or all of our asset backed medium term notes. We rely to a significant extent on indebtedness to fund vehicle purchases and expect to have substantial debt and debt service requirements in the foreseeable future. During 2008, there were significant disruptions in the credit markets that affected our access to financing. One of our lines of credit was cancelled and another was not renewed. Our ability to borrow in the commercial paper markets was also affected during the year and, in late 2008, we began borrowing under the liquidity facility that supports our commercial paper program because we were unable to access the commercial paper market. We also do not expect to have access to the medium term note market or the commercial paper market in 2009. We have obtained various amendments to certain of our financing arrangements, including our senior secured credit facilities (as amended, the "Senior Secured Credit Facilities"), to ensure sufficient operating flexibility under our financial covenants, while maintaining adequate borrowing capacity. As a condition to some of these amendments, we had to reduce outstanding debt and agree to permanent reductions in the lending commitments of our counterparties. We are subject to numerous financial and non-financial covenants under our financing arrangements, and defaults under some of our arrangements include events that are outside our controls, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of the Monolines. In the future, we may need to obtain additional amendments or waivers under our financing arrangements, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain them on favorable terms or at all. If a default were to occur under our financing arrangements, our lenders could be entitled to accelerate our repayment of outstanding debt and exercise their remedies against any collateral securing the debt. -18- Vehicle Supply and Residual Value Programs Our vehicle supply agreement with Chrysler extends through model year 2011 and we generally purchase 75% to 90% of our vehicles from Chrysler. Under the vehicle supply agreement, to obtain agreed incentive payments we must purchase 75% of our vehicles from Chrysler up to certain targeted volumes and Chrysler has agreed to provide us certain minimum volumes of vehicles. We have no control over the terms of Residual Value Programs offered by the vehicle manufacturers and we anticipate that the cost of Program Vehicles will continue to increase in 2009. We intend to reduce the number of Program Vehicles we purchase in 2009 as we acquire more risk vehicles to mitigate such increased costs and reduce our exposure to the creditworthiness of vehicle manufacturers. In early 2009, we signed a vehicle supply agreement with Ford to purchase a portion of our vehicles through the 2012 model year. Additionally, we purchase vehicles from other manufacturers, such as Hyundai Motor America ("Hyundai") and Kia Motors America ("Kia") that offer Residual Value Programs wherein the vehicle manufacturer takes back the vehicle to sell and pays us the full depreciated value of the vehicle. Vehicle manufacturers, including Chrysler, have reduced vehicle supply to the rental car industry and have significantly increased industry vehicle costs for the past few years by increasing Program Vehicle depreciation rates and lowering incentives. The failure of any of the major vehicle manufacturers to sell enough vehicles to the industry could adversely affect our results. The U.S. automotive industry has been under severe pressure as a result of the current recessionary environment, leading certain manufacturers, including Chrysler, to request significant amounts of federal support in order to remain financially viable. If Chrysler defaults under its Residual Value Program for any reason, we could be left with a material unpaid balance with respect to Program Vehicles and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We also have exposure to the creditworthiness of other suppliers. For example, under our agreements with Hyundai and Kia, our receivable relates to Program Vehicles that were returned to the respective manufacturer for disposition with the ultimate sales proceeds owed to us. If Chrysler or any of our other important suppliers fails to remain financially viable, it could disrupt vehicle supply and affect our ability to meet our fleet requirements. Risk in Vehicle Remarketing We have retained the used car market value risk on approximately 65% of our vehicles during 2008 and plan to increase this percentage in 2009. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are highly dependent on used car prices at the time of sale, requiring the Company to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicles at the time of disposal, as well as the general used vehicle auction market. We currently sell risk vehicles through auctions, third party resellers and other channels, which may not produce stable used vehicle pricing in the future. The costs of our risk vehicles may be materially impacted by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one to two year old used cars. A decline in the prices at which we sell risk vehicles could have an adverse impact on our fleet holding costs and results of operations. In 2008, the used car market experienced significant volatility and an overall decline in residual values, including for many types of vehicles in our fleet. A further significant decline in used car prices for the vehicles we are selling would have a significant adverse impact on our results. Operating more risk vehicles could have a negative impact on the vehicle utilization and profitability if we are unable or elect not to sell those vehicles in periods of weaker rental demand. -19- Risks Related to Car Acquisition and Disposition For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 35% of the vehicles purchased were subject to repurchase by vehicle manufacturers under Residual Value Programs. Under these Programs, vehicle manufacturers agree to repurchase vehicles at a specified price or guarantee the depreciation rate on the vehicles during a specified time period, typically subject to certain vehicle condition and mileage requirements. These Programs limit the risk to us that the market value of a vehicle at the time of its disposition will be less than its estimated residual value at such time. Residual Value Programs enable us to determine our depreciation expense in advance. This predictability is useful to us, since depreciation is a significant cost factor in our operations. A trade-off we face when we purchase Program Vehicles is that we typically pay the manufacturer of a Program Vehicle more than we would pay to buy the same vehicle as a Non-Program Vehicle. Program Vehicles thus involve a larger initial investment than their risk counterparts. If a Program Vehicle is damaged or otherwise becomes ineligible for return or sale under the relevant program, our loss upon the disposition of the vehicle will be larger than if the vehicle had been a risk vehicle, because our initial investment in the vehicle was larger. Program Vehicles also expose us to the receivable risk related to the financial stability of the vehicle manufacturer. If a vehicle manufacturer with a significant receivable balance was unable to pay amounts owed to us upon the sale of the Program Vehicle, it could materially impact our financial results and cash flows. Residual Value Programs generally provide us with flexibility to reduce the size of our fleet by returning vehicles sooner than originally expected without risk of loss in the event of an economic downturn or to respond to changes in rental demand. This flexibility has been reduced as the percentage of Program Vehicles in our vehicle rental fleet has decreased materially. In addition, the increase in the percentage of risk vehicles in our fleet exposes us to higher residual value risk and unpredictable auction market conditions. Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry There is intense competition in the vehicle rental industry, especially on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition. The vehicle rental industry primarily consists of eight major brands, all of which compete strongly for rental customers. A significant increase in industry capacity or a reduction in overall demand could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase rental rates or market share. Dependence on Air Travel We get approximately 90% of our rental revenues from airport locations and airport arriving customers. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, airline restructuring through bankruptcy, and continued challenging economic conditions may cause airlines to reduce flight schedules which could adversely impact the number of airline passengers. The airline industry has also faced considerable challenges in light of current global economic conditions and an overall decline in air travel. In 2008, airline enplanements decreased nearly 5%. A significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Texas represented approximately 55% of our total rental revenue in 2008. The severe decline in consumer spending in recent periods has materially adversely affected leisure travel and can be expected to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. Reductions in leisure travel resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other factors could also have a material adverse impact on our results. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season for vehicle rentals. In 2008, the second and third quarters accounted for over 26% and 29% of the Company’s vehicle rental revenues, respectively. Any event that disrupts rental activity, fleet supply, or industry fleet capacity during these quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity, our cash flows and/or our results of operations. -20- Like-Kind Exchange Program We use a like-kind exchange program for our vehicles where we dispose of our vehicles and acquire replacement vehicles in such a way that we defer the gain on these dispositions for tax purposes. The use of this like-kind exchange program has allowed us to defer a material amount of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2002. In order to get the benefit of the deferral of the gains on disposal of our vehicles, we must acquire replacement vehicles within a specified time frame. Therefore, a downsizing of our fleet, a reduction in vehicle purchases or a suspension of the program, such as occurred in late 2008, could result in a reduced amount of gain deferrals and increased payments of federal and state cash income taxes, after considering the effect of net operating loss carryforwards. For further discussion of our like-kind exchange program, see "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources". Customer Surcharges In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles and, where permitted, the concession cost imposed by airport authorities or the owners and/or operators of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. Consistent with industry-wide business practices, we separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to customers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice complies with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals in certain states which, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas which may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. Enactment of any of these proposals could restrict our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Laws and Regulations We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and Canada and other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices or our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Optional insurance products, including, but not limited to, supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. If customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us as a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Fuel Costs In 2008, prices for petroleum-based products, including gasoline, were extremely volatile and significantly affected automotive travel patterns. While gasoline prices have moderated, it is possible that a variety of factors, including the current economic environment and geopolitical unrest in oil-producing nations, could cause further price volatility. Limitations in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, either by directly discouraging customers from renting cars, causing a decline in airline passenger traffic, or increasing our operating costs, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers. Third Party Internet Sites The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2008, we received 76% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, with 44% coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. The remaining portion of non-tour reservations derived from the Internet were provided by third party Internet sites. No single third party Internet site provides more than 8% of our non-tour reservations. -21- Future changes in the way travel is sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. In 2007 and 2008, we maintained the level of self-insurance of $4.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, per occurrence, plus a self-insured corridor of $1.0 million per occurrence for losses in excess of $4.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, with an aggregate limit of $7.0 million for this corridor, and maintain the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability of $5.0 million. In 2009, we increased the level of self-insurance from $5.0 million to $7.5 million per occurrence. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. We self-insure for all losses on supplemental liability insurance policies sold to vehicle rental customers. A significant change in amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. Litigation Relating to the Constitutionality of the Removal of Vicarious Liability The federal Highway Bill removed unlimited vicarious liability for vehicle rental and leasing companies, limiting exposure to state minimum financial responsibility amounts. Before vicarious liability was removed, the owner of a vehicle in certain states would be liable for acts by vehicle drivers even though the vehicle owner was not directly responsible. This federal law supersedes all state laws on vicarious liability for automobile lessors. Since the Highway Bill became law, its constitutionality has been challenged in some state courts, including subsequent appeals. If these provisions of the Highway Bill were overturned, we would be subject to significant exposure to insurance liabilities and higher insurance costs, which would materially impact our results. Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental regulatory requirements related to the ownership, storage or use of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and new and used motor oil; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of waste materials. We have made, and expect to continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures may be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have designed programs to maintain compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including leak detection testing of underground storage tanks, and to provide financial assurance for remediation of spills or releases. However, we cannot be certain that our programs will guarantee compliance with all regulations to which we are subject. Environmental legislation and regulations and related administrative policies have changed rapidly in recent years. There is a risk that governmental environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future and that we may be subject to additional legal proceedings brought by government agencies or private parties for environmental matters. In addition, there may be additional locations of which we are currently unaware at which wastes generated by us may have been released or disposed. In the future, these locations may become the subject of cleanup for which we may be liable, in whole or part. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future environmental liabilities will not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations or cash flows. Interest Rates We incur a large amount of debt to purchase vehicles. While the majority of this debt bears interest at fixed rates due to our interest rate swap agreements, a portion of this debt bears interest at short-term floating rates. Therefore, we are exposed to increases in interest rates. The amount of our financing costs affects the amount we must charge our customers to be profitable. Increased interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations if we are unable to pass increased financing costs through to our customers or if we lose customers to competitors due to increased rental rates resulting from an increase in our financing costs. -22- Outsourcing Arrangements We have an agreement with EDS to handle the majority of our IT services. If EDS fails to meet our required IT needs due to a lack of technical ability or financial condition or otherwise, we may suffer a loss of business functionality and productivity, which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in our relationship with EDS, we may not be able to secure another IT supplier to adequately meet our IT needs on acceptable terms, which could result in performance issues and a significant increase in costs. We have an agreement with PRC to handle a portion of the calls to reserve a car for rental on a future date and to answer questions or handle issues while the renter has our car. If PRC fails to meet our required reservation needs due to lack of qualified personnel or financial condition or otherwise, we may suffer a loss of business which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in our relationship with PRC, we may not be able to secure another supplier to adequately meet our reservation needs on acceptable terms, which could result in loss of customers and a decrease in revenues. Communication Networks and Centralized Information Systems We heavily rely on information systems to conduct our business specifically in the areas of reservations, rental transaction processing, fleet management and accounting. We have centralized information systems in disaster resistant facilities maintained by EDS in Tulsa, Oklahoma and we rely on communication service providers to link our system with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, slow the rental transaction processing, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems back-up plans, continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, but not to eliminate it. Our systems contain personal information about our customers, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or that of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Potential for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets A significant decline in operations on both an individual location and overall company basis could indicate that certain long-lived assets are impaired. We will continue to test our long-lived assets for potential impairment and may be required to write down a portion or all of the remaining long-lived assets, comprising property and equipment and software totaling approximately $135 million. Stock Price Fluctuation We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include but are not limited to: our quarterly or annual earnings or others in the rental car industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, principles or interpretations; overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In December 2008, our market capitalization was less than the minimum $25 million required for continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE; however, due to recent volatile market conditions, the NYSE temporarily reduced the minimum market capitalization requirement to $15 million through April 22, 2009 and has recently determined to extend this period, subject to SEC approval. Because of the significant volatility in our stock price, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain the required minimum market capitalization. If we are unable to do so, or we fail to meet any other listing condition, particularly those that depend on market prices, the NYSE could commence delisting proceedings with respect to our common stock. -23- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 