Item 1A. Risk Factors There are several significant risk factors that affect the financial performance of financial institutions in general and the Company in particular. This Report, as well as the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference, include comments relating to those factors. Presented below is a summary of risk factors that are especially significant to the Company. While these factors apply to most financial institutions, the commentary which follows addresses only how those factors are significant to the Company. Changes in the Interest Rate Policies of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve System. Interest rate changes made by the Federal Reserve since June 2004 caused the yield curve to migrate from an upward slope to an inverted slope. An inverted yield curve diminishes the profitability of the Bank. Improvement in net interest margin will continue to be difficult to achieve until the slope of the yield curve starts to move upward. Rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the ability of borrowers to repay loans and on the value of properties and assets pledged as loan collateral. Changes in the Real Estate Market. The real estate market in the area where the Company conducts most of its business is experiencing a slow down in activity and a reduction in the prices at which real estate is bought and sold. These trends could affect the volume of business the Company can achieve in the future and the value of underlying collateral related to the Company’s mortgage loan portfolio. A substantial part of the Company’s assets are supported by real estate. Changes in the Local Economy. Most of the Company’s activity is concentrated in eastern Massachusetts. Massachusetts has lost population in the past few years. Continuation of that trend could affect the ability of the Company to grow in the future. Further economic slow down could affect the ability of both business and consumer borrowers to repay their loans. Besides a significant mortgage loan portfolio, the Company had $540 million of indirect automobile loans at December 31, 2006. 20 Competition. Currently, pricing for loans and deposits by many competitors is very aggressive and at rates that result in lower than normal profit margins. While the Company has more than ample capital to compete with most financial institutions, continuation of existing pricing trends will have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. Legislative and Regulatory Changes. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relates to, among other things, assessment and monitoring of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting, has resulted in substantial added costs for the Company. The requirements of this Act are especially burdensome and frustrating to an entity such as the Company that has been subjected to comprehensive regulatory examination and supervision for many years. The Company has also devoted important resources to meet new regulatory requirements in areas such as domestic security and customer privacy. Continuation of the frequency and complexity of legislative and regulatory changes will place further pressure on the Company’s overall profitability. Successful Execution of Growth Initiatives. As described elsewhere in this Report, in 2006 the Company expanded its ownership of Eastern and hired two senior commercial loan officers. It is expected that both of these initiatives will provide profitable growth opportunities. On the other hand, expansion of activities in areas where the Company’s prior history is limited involves greater risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 