ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Except for the historical information contained herein, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Applicable to Our Business Generally We expect that we will be required to repurchase our 2007 Notes in April 2012. If we do not raise sufficient additional funds to fund the repurchase of the 2007 Notes and our other 2012 capital requirements, we will be unable to do so, and we may have to curtail or cease operations. On April 1, 2012, the holders of our 2007 Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the 2007 Notes for a total amount equal to $34.9 million plus accrued and unpaid interest to such date. We expect the holders of the 2007 Notes to exercise their put and require us to repurchase the 2007 Notes, and we currently do not have adequate funds to repurchase the 2007 Notes and continue to fund our business. If we are unable to raise 22 Table of Contents sufficient additional money to repurchase the 2007 Notes and continue to fund our business, we will have to implement one or more of the following remedies: • issue equity in exchange for all or a portion of our 2007 Notes at substantial dilution to current stockholders; • reduce our capital expenditures; • further scale back our development of new enzyme products; • significantly reduce our workforce; • sell some or all of our assets; • seek to license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves; • file for bankruptcy; and/or • curtail or cease operations. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional money to satisfy our obligation to repurchase the 2007 Notes on a timely basis or at all. We also expect that our capital requirements in 2012 will depend on several factors in addition to our anticipated need to repurchase the 2007 Notes, including: • the level of research and development investment required to maintain our technology leadership position; • our ability to borrow under our existing credit lines; • the capital required to build out our new facility in San Diego; • our ability to enter into new agreements with collaborative partners or to extend the terms of our existing collaborative agreements, and the terms of any agreement of this type; • the success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; • our ability to successfully commercialize products developed independently and the demand for such products, including our existing products; • the timing and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize our products that would result in royalties; • the amount and timing of release of funds held in escrow in connection with the sale of the LC business to BP in 2010; • costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; and • our possible acquisition or licensing of complementary technologies or acquisition of complementary businesses. We may need to also seek additional funds to fund those capital requirements. Such funds may not be available to us or may be available only on terms not satisfactory to us. Our inability to raise adequate funds to support the growth of our product and product candidate portfolio will materially adversely affect our business. We continue to experience losses from operations, and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains a paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2011 we incurred a loss from operations of $6.5 million. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 contains an explanatory paragraph which states that we have incurred recurring operating losses, have a working capital 23 Table of Contents deficit of $0.6 million and have an accumulated deficit of $600.8 million at December 31, 2011, and, based on our operating plan and existing working capital deficit, this raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not have adequate funds to pay interest on our 2007 Notes, or to purchase the 2007 Notes upon a fundamental change in our business. If a “fundamental change,” which is defined in the indenture related to the 2007 Notes, occurs, holders of the 2007 Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their 2007 Notes. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest or the repurchase price in connection with any “fundamental change,” or generally to pay interest on the 2007 Notes as it becomes due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a “fundamental change.” Those agreements may also make our repurchase of 2007 Notes an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the 2007 Notes or to repurchase the 2007 Notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the 2007 Notes which may also cause an event of default under the terms of other borrowing arrangements that we may enter into from time to time. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including causing us to cease operations altogether. Conversion of the 2007 Notes, exercise of our outstanding warrants and anti-dilution adjustments that may occur under certain of our outstanding warrants will significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the 2007 Notes (including in connection with any restructuring of the 2007 Notes involving the exchange of the 2007 Notes for equity or equity-linked securities in the event we are not able to fund the repurchase of the 2007 Notes that we expect we will be required to make in April 2012) and/or the exercise of some or all of the warrants related to the issuance in 2008 of our 8% Senior Convertible Notes due April 2, 2012, or the 2008 Notes (all of which were repurchased by us in 2010), could significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The warrants related to the 2008 Notes and certain warrants held by Syngenta contain weighted average anti-dilution protection that could also cause more shares to become issuable under those warrants if we engage in subsequent issuances that trigger those provisions. Sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2007 Notes or exercise of our outstanding warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the 2007 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the 2007 Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or the anticipated conversion of the 2007 Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Our high level of debt limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments, increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and may harm our financial condition and results of operations. The face value of our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2011, which includes the 2007 Notes, was approximately $34.9 million, representing approximately 78% of our total capitalization as of such date. Our level of indebtedness could have important adverse consequences on our future operations, including: • any of the consequences described under the first risk factor above; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; 24 Table of Contents • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Moreover, if we fail to make any required payments under our debt, or otherwise breach the terms of our debt, all or a substantial portion of our debt could be subject to acceleration. In such a situation, it is unlikely we would be able to repay the accelerated debt, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including causing us to cease operations. We have a history of net losses, we expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Excluding our non-cash gains related to our debt repurchases in 2011, we have typically incurred net losses from our continuing operations since our inception. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $600.8 million. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future. Product revenues currently account for the majority of our annual revenues, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenue for 2012 will continue to result from the same sources. Future revenue from collaborations is uncertain and will depend upon our ability to maintain our current collaborations, enter into new collaborations and to meet research, development, and commercialization objectives under new and existing agreements. Over the past two years, our product revenue in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues has increased significantly. Our product revenue may not continue to grow in either absolute dollars or as a percentage of total revenues. If product revenue increases, we would expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in support of increased volume, which could negatively affect our operating margins and profitability. In addition, the amounts we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on: • the time and expense to build or retrofit, rent, operate and maintain our new facility in San Diego; • the time and expense to complete improvements to our manufacturing capabilities at Fermic; • the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights; • how competing technological and market developments affect our proposed activities; and • the cost of obtaining licenses required to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise. We may not achieve any or all of our goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on an operating basis or maintain revenues at current levels or grow revenues. If we fail to achieve profitability and maintain or increase revenues, the market price of our common stock will likely decrease. If we are unable to access the capacity to manufacture products in sufficient quantity, we may not be able to commercialize our products or generate significant sales. We have only limited experience in enzyme manufacturing, and we do not have our own internal capacity to manufacture enzyme products on a commercial scale. We expect to be dependent to a significant extent on third parties for commercial scale manufacturing of our enzyme products. We have arrangements with third parties that have the required manufacturing equipment and available capacity to manufacture our commercial enzymes. Additionally, one of our third party manufacturers, Fermic, is located in Mexico, and is our sole-source supplier for most of our commercial enzyme products. Any difficulties or interruptions of service with our third party manufacturers such as Fermic or our pilot manufacturing facility could disrupt our research and development efforts, delay our commercialization of enzyme products, and harm our relationships with our enzyme strategic partners, collaborators, or customers. 25 Table of Contents We have experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to our manufacturing processes in the past for our enzyme products, and may continue to experience such losses, which could negatively impact our product gross margins. We have experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to contamination issues of our enzyme products. While we continue to address contamination issues and, in the past, have recovered a substantial portion of such losses from our third-party manufacturer Fermic, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur in the future or that any amount of future losses will be reimbursed by Fermic. If such contamination issues continue in future periods, or we are not able to otherwise improve our manufacturing yields, our sales would suffer and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are currently experiencing manufacturing constraints which may prevent us from maintaining adequate supply of inventory to meet our customers’ demands. We have constraints with our downstream recovery capabilities at our third-party manufacturing site, Fermic. We do not have adequate processing equipment to accommodate expected increased demand for our products. This has created inefficiencies in our enzyme manufacturing process, which has compromised our manufacturing yields. To address these shortcomings, together with Fermic, we plan to implement several manufacturing expansion and process improvement projects, which we anticipate will require additional capital expenditures over the next 12-18 months. If such projects are delayed, or do not adequately resolve our current manufacturing limitations, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our enzyme products, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we increase contract manufacturing of our Phyzyme® XP phytase at Genencor and decrease its manufacture at Fermic, our gross product revenues will be adversely impacted. During 2011, approximately 65% of Phyzyme XP® phytase production was manufactured by Genencor. Due to capacity constraints at Fermic in 2008, we were not able to supply adequate quantities of Phyzyme® XP phytase necessary to meet the increased demand from Danisco. As a result, we contracted with Genencor, a subsidiary of Danisco, to serve as a second-source manufacturer for Phyzyme® XP phytase. Pursuant to current accounting rules, revenue from Phyzyme® XP phytase that is supplied to us by Genencor is recognized in an amount equal to the royalty calculated as a percentage of operating profit received from Danisco, as compared to the full value of the manufacturing costs plus the royalty we currently recognize for Phyzyme® XP phytase we manufacture at Fermic. While this revenue recognition treatment has little or no negative impact on the gross margin we recognize for every sale of Phyzyme® XP phytase, it does have a negative impact on the gross product revenue we recognize for Phyzyme® XP phytase as the volume of Phyzyme® XP phytase manufactured by Genencor increases. If Danisco exercises its right to assume manufacturing rights of Phyzyme® XP phytase, we may experience significant excess capacity at Fermic which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, our supply agreement with Danisco for Phyzyme® XP phytase contains provisions which allow Danisco, with six months’ advance notice, to assume manufacturing rights of Phyzyme® XP phytase. If Danisco were to exercise this right, we would also have the right to reduce our capacity commitment to Fermic; nevertheless, we may still experience significant excess capacity at Fermic as a result. If we were unable to absorb this excess capacity with other products, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Significant fluctuations in commodity availability and price, or a change in the use of production facilities that use our enzymes, could have a negative effect on demand for our enzymes. Our product lines may be directly or indirectly dependent upon the pricing of commodities and, therefore, may be subject to changes in availability and price of such commodities such as corn, wheat and ethanol in our grain processing product line; soy beans and soy bean oil in our oilseed processing product line; and poultry and 26 Table of Contents phosphorous in our animal nutrition and health product line. Competitive conditions, governmental restrictions, natural disasters and other events could limit the production of our customers’ products that use our enzymes. As a result, the price and availability of the raw materials used, or the end products which our enzymes are used to produce, may fluctuate substantially, and could significantly impact both the demand for, and average sales price of, our enzymes. In addition, our customers may have alternative uses for the production facilities they use to manufacture the end products which our enzymes are used to produce. Such uses may require reduced volumes of our enzymes, or may not require our enzymes at all. Any change in the use of production facilities that currently use our enzymes to manufacture products could significantly impact the demand for, and average sales price of, our enzymes. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Because a significant portion of our revenue comes from a few large customers, any decrease in sales to these customers could harm our operating results. Our revenue and profitability are highly dependent on our relationships with a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our four largest customers accounted for approximately 70% of product revenue. We are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration. The loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. The existing global economic and financial market environment has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations The existing global economic and financial market environment has caused, among other things, lower consumer and business spending, lower consumer net worth, a general tightening in the credit markets, and lower levels of liquidity, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers have been severely affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential customers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrained our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will significantly improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. See “—Risks Related to Financing Activities” below for a discussion of additional risks to our liquidity resulting from the current economic and financial market environment. The financial instability of our customers could adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. We sell our products to a limited number of customers, and we are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration in the future. Therefore, the loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if the general market conditions for corn ethanol were to deteriorate, including as a result of over supply and reduced demand, our 27 Table of Contents Fuelzyme® alpha-amylase customers may be adversely affected, which could cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders, which would adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. Additionally, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. While customer credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To date, a significant portion of our oilseed processing revenue is concentrated in South America, specifically Argentina, which has historically experienced economic instability. Our international enzyme manufacturing operations are subject to a number of risks that could adversely affect our business. We manufacture a majority of our commercial enzyme products through a manufacturing facility in Mexico City owned by Fermic. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business in countries outside the U.S., particularly in Mexico, including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, organized criminal activity and violence, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, and changes in local government administration and governmental policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects of health risks. There can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control costs of our products, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have only limited experience in independently developing, manufacturing, marketing, selling, and distributing commercial enzyme products. We currently have only limited resources and capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, or distribute enzyme products on a commercial scale. We will determine which enzyme products to pursue independently based on various criteria, including: investment required, estimated time to market, regulatory hurdles, infrastructure requirements, and industry-specific expertise necessary for successful commercialization. At any time, we may modify our strategy and pursue collaborations for the development and commercialization of some enzyme products that we had intended to pursue independently. We may pursue enzyme products that ultimately require more resources than we anticipate or which may be technically unsuccessful. In order for us to commercialize more enzyme products directly, we would need to establish or obtain through outsourcing arrangements additional capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, and distribute such products. If we are unable to successfully commercialize enzyme products resulting from our internal product development efforts, we will continue to incur losses. Even if we successfully develop a commercial enzyme product, we may not generate significant sales and achieve profitability in our business. We are dependent on our collaborative partners, and our failure to successfully manage our existing and future collaboration relationships could prevent us from developing and commercializing our enzyme products, and achieving or sustaining profitability. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently fund the development and commercialization of all the potential enzyme products that may result from our technologies, we expect to continue to pursue, and in the near-term derive additional revenue from, strategic alliance and collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize products and technologies that are core to our current market focus. We will have limited or no control over the resources that any strategic partner or collaborator may devote to our products and technologies. Any of our present or future strategic partners or collaborators may fail to perform their obligations as expected. These strategic partners or collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our 28 Table of Contents strategic partners or collaborators may not develop technologies or products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of these technologies and products. If any of these events occur, or we fail to enter into or maintain strategic alliance or collaboration agreements, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies and products, grow our business, or generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. Our present or future strategic alliance and collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: • We do not achieve our research and development objectives under our strategic alliance and collaboration agreements; • We are unable to fund our obligations under any of our other strategic partners or collaborators; • We develop technologies or products and processes or enter into additional strategic alliances or collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our strategic partners or collaborators; • We disagree with our strategic partners or collaborators as to rights to intellectual property we develop, or their research programs or commercialization activities; • Our strategic partners or collaborators experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our strategic alliances or collaborations; • We are unable to manage multiple simultaneous strategic alliances or collaborations; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become less willing to expend their resources on research and development due to general market conditions or other circumstances beyond our control; • Consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential strategic partners or collaborators; or • We are unable to negotiate additional agreements having terms satisfactory to us. We have relied, and will continue to rely, heavily on strategic partners to support our business. Historically, we have relied upon a number of strategic partners, including Bunge Oils, Novus, Alfa Laval, Desmet Ballestra, Danisco, WeissBioTech GmbH (formerly Add Food Services GmbH), and Fermic to enhance and support our development and commercialization efforts for our industrial enzymes. Historically, Danisco has accounted for a significant percentage of our product revenue. However, Danisco is under no obligation to continue to market Phyzyme® XP phytase and may introduce competing or replacement products at any time. Danisco represented approximately 54% of total product revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Under our agreement with Danisco, we receive a royalty equal to 50% of Danisco’s operating profit from their sales of Phyzyme® XP phytase, as defined. We record our quarterly royalty defined by our agreement based on information reported to us by Danisco. We have limited visibility into Danisco’s sales or operating profits related to Phyzyme® XP phytase. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we experienced a decrease in the royalty as compared to the prior year and may continue to experience future declines that would negatively impact our product revenue and gross profit. These arrangements with collaborative partners are, and will continue to be, critical to the success of our business. We cannot guarantee that any new collaborative relationship(s) will be entered into, or if entered into, will continue or be successful. Our collaborative partners could experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our arrangements with them. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner’s performance under any such arrangements would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example, our strategic collaboration with Novus to develop and commercialize new enzyme products is dependent on Novus’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize products from our product pipeline, and they may not have the resources or expertise to do so, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We cannot control our collaborative partners’ performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners’ activities. The performance of our programs may be adversely affected and programs may be delayed or terminated or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own as a result of these disagreements. Performance issues, program delays or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the issue of which of us owns the technology and other intellectual property that is developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. We have licensed certain intellectual property from BP, and we must rely on BP to adequately maintain and protect it. In connection with the sale of our LC business to BP on September 2, 2010, we transferred ownership of certain intellectual property for which BP has granted us a license for use within our enzymes business. While the provisions of the purchase agreement provide that BP maintain and protect such intellectual property, there can be no assurance that BP will continue to do so. In addition, BP may be unsuccessful in protecting the intellectual property which we have a license to, if such intellectual property rights are challenged by third parties. While we have certain rights to take action to maintain or protect such intellectual property, in the event that BP determines not to, we may be unsuccessful in protecting the intellectual property if challenged by third parties. If either of these events were to occur, we may lose our rights to certain intellectual property, which could severely harm our business. Similarly, we license additional intellectual property that we use to manufacture our products and otherwise use in our business. In the event that the licensors of this technology do not adequate protect it, our ability to use that technology will also be restricted, resulting in harm to our business. In addition, BP’s rights to use the intellectual property that we have licensed are limited only by the non-competition agreements entered in connection with the sale of our LC business, which agreements have a limited duration. Following expiration of these agreements, BP will have the right to use without limitation the same intellectual property that we have used and still use to develop our products. Should BP elect to compete with us following such expiration, such competition could harm our business. Funds held in escrow in connection with the sale of the LC business to BP may not be released when expected. Pursuant to the terms of the sale of the LC business to BP in 2010, $5 million of the purchase price was placed in escrow and is subject to the terms of an escrow agreement, to cover our indemnification obligations for potential liabilities and breaches of representations and warranties made by us, most of which survive for a period of 18 months following the closing. BP has made a claim for indemnification by us pursuant to the escrow agreement in connection with a claim made by University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., or UFRF, against BP relating to a license granted by UFRF to Verenium Biofuels Corporation (now known as BP Biofuels Advanced Technology, Inc.), which was acquired by BP in the 2010 transaction. BP has directed the escrow agent not to disburse the $5 million in escrow pending resolution of the indemnification claim. We have directed the escrow agent to distribute $2.5 million of the amount held in escrow, which amount was to have been previously disbursed solely at our direction. The escrow agent has not disbursed such amount to date, and we have filed for arbitration of the dispute regarding immediate distribution of $2.5 million of the amount in escrow. The remaining $2.5 million will remain in escrow pending resolution of the UFRF claim against BP. We believe that the UFRF claim against BP, and the BP claim against us for indemnity pertaining to the UFRF claim, are without merit. We cannot be certain that we will prevail in the arbitration of the dispute regarding immediate distribution of $2.5 million of the amount in escrow. If we do not prevail in the arbitration, all of the $5.0 million 30 Table of Contents will remain in escrow pending resolution of the UFRF claim against BP. We cannot be certain of the timing of resolution of the UFRF claim, or whether the UFRF claim against BP, and the BP claim against us for indemnity pertaining to the UFRF claim, will be resolved in a manner that results in release to us all or any of the amount held in escrow. We should be viewed as an early stage company with limited experience bringing products to the marketplace. You must evaluate our business in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. Our existing proprietary technologies are new and in an early stage of development and commercialization. We may not be successful in the continued commercialization of existing products or in the commercial development of new products, or any further technologies, products or processes. Successful products and processes require significant development and investment, including testing, to demonstrate their cost- effectiveness prior to regulatory approval and commercialization. To date, we have commercialized 15 of our own products, including our Purifine® PLC, Fuelzyme® alpha-amylase, Veretase® alpha-amylase, Xylathin™ xylanase, and Luminase® PB-100 enzymes. In addition, five of our collaborative partners, Invitrogen Corporation, Danisco Animal Nutrition, Givaudan Flavors Corporation, Cargill Health and Food Technologies, and Syngenta Animal Nutrition (formerly known as Zymetrics, Inc.), have incorporated our technologies or inventions into their own commercial products from which we have generated and/or can generate royalties. Our products and technologies have only recently begun to generate significant revenues. Because of these uncertainties, our discovery process may not result in the identification of product candidates that we or our collaborative partners will successfully commercialize. If we are not able to use our technologies to discover new materials, products, or processes with significant commercial potential, we may continue to have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses for research, development and commercialization efforts and we may be unable to obtain additional funding to fund such efforts. If the volatility in the United States and global equity and credit markets and the decline in the general world economy continue for an extended period of time, it may become more difficult to raise money in the public and private markets and harm our financial condition and results of operations. The United States and global equity and credit markets have recently been extremely volatile and unpredictable, reflecting in part a general concern regarding the global economy. This volatility in the market affects not just our stock price, but also the stock prices of our collaborators. In addition, this volatility has also affected the ability of businesses to obtain credit and to raise money in the capital markets. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain additional credit or raise money in the capital markets, we may not be able to continue to fund our current research and development projects, fund our current products, or otherwise continue to maintain or grow our business. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy includes entering into and working on simultaneous projects, frequently across multiple industries. This strategy places increased demands on our limited human resources and requires us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, growth, and various projects requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and 31 Table of Contents management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees, which we may be unable to do. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner. Moreover, we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. The failure to successfully meet any of these challenges would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our building sublease in San Diego will expire within the next 6 months, and we will be required to relocate our research and development and corporate operations to our newly leased facility. Our research and development, business development and corporate operations are conducted mainly from a single facility in San Diego, which we currently sublease from BP set to expire in September 2012. We have entered into a lease for a new facility in San Diego, but commencement of that lease is subject to the build-out of the leased premises, including new pilot fermentation / recovery and automation labs. The cost of the facility and the equipment required for the facility will require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which we expect to be financed through existing cash and/or additional sources of capital. If we are unsuccessful in transitioning operations to a new facility, there are significant delays in the build-out or we are unable to obtain adequate financing to complete the build-out, our business will be adversely impacted. Our business is subject to complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have implemented requirements, standards and regulations, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules, and continue developing additional requirements. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from operating activities to compliance activities. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses or accordingly increase our net loss. Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding financial disclosures and compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosures and governance practices. This further could lead to possible restatements, due to the complex nature of current and future standards and possible misinterpretation or misapplication of such standards. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the past, we have disclosed material weaknesses with our financial statement close process that we have since remediated. If we discover other deficiencies or material weaknesses, it may adversely impact our ability to 32 Table of Contents report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we experience deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, these deficiencies may negatively impact our business and operations. Our ability to compete in the commercial enzymes industry may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of intellectual property rights to our technologies and products in the United States and foreign countries. If unauthorized parties successfully copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology the value of our owned and in-licensed technology could decline. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or at all. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly harmed. Although we seek patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products, as well as anticipated production capabilities and processes, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could greatly harm our business and results of operations. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products, and business. The patent positions of companies whose businesses are based on biotechnology, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Although we have and intend to continue to apply for patent protection of our technologies, processes and products, even the resulting patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. We cannot assure you that patent applications or patents have not been filed or issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate our business as currently planned. In addition, if third parties develop technologies that are similar to or duplicate our technologies, there can be no guarantee that our existing intellectual property protections will prevent such third parties from using such similar or duplicative technologies to compete with us. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to commercialize processes or products in those countries. There also may be claims in patent applications in some countries that, if granted and valid, may block our ability to commercialize our processes or products in those countries. In such any event there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the rights under such patents to commercialize our processes and products on reasonable terms or at all. Third parties may challenge our intellectual property rights, which, if successful could prevent us from selling products or significantly increase our costs to sell our products and we may be prevented from competing in our industry. Disputes concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and extremely costly and could delay or prevent us from achieving profitability. Our commercial success, if any, will be significantly harmed if we infringe the patent rights of third parties or if we breach any license or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technology or business. We are not currently a party to any litigation, interference, opposition, protest, reexamination, reissue or any other potentially adverse governmental, ex parte or inter-party proceeding with regard to our owned or in-licensed patents or other intellectual property rights. However, the biotechnology industry is characterized by 33 Table of Contents frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many biotechnology companies with substantially greater resources than us have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. We may become involved in litigation, interference proceedings, oppositions, reexamination, protest or other potentially adverse intellectual property proceedings as a result of alleged infringement by us of the rights of others or as a result of priority of invention disputes with third parties. Third parties may also challenge the validity of any of our issued patents. Similarly, we may initiate proceedings to enforce our patent rights and prevent others from infringing our or our licensed intellectual property rights. In any of these circumstances, we might have to spend significant amounts of money, time and effort defending our position and we may not be successful. In addition, any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights or proprietary determinations, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, lengthy governmental proceedings, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements that are not advantageous to us. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. We cannot assure you that if we are sued on these patents we would prevail. Should any third party have filed, or file in the future, patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for these inventions in the United States. Such a proceeding, like the one described above, could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful, an interference may result in loss of claims. The litigation or proceedings could divert our management’s time and efforts. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time, and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete and could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. Our policy is to execute confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetically engineered products and processes could limit or prevent the use of our products, processes, and technologies and limit our revenue. Some of our anticipated products and processes are genetically engineered or involve the use of genetically engineered products or genetic engineering technologies. If we and/or our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns relating to genetic engineering, our products and processes may not be accepted. Any of the risks discussed below could result in expenses, delays, or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our 34 Table of Contents technologies or inventions. Our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our technologies, products, or processes could be limited by the following factors: • public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and genetically engineered products and processes, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes; • public attitudes regarding, and potential changes to laws governing, ownership of genetic material which could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage collaborative partners from supporting, developing, or commercializing our products, processes and technologies; and • governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning genetically modified organisms, which could result in greater government regulation of genetic research and derivative products, including labeling requirements. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate in the United States and other countries. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports and exports of genetically altered products. Compliance with regulatory requirements and obtaining required government approvals may be time consuming and costly, and could delay our introduction of products. All phases, especially the field testing, production, and marketing, of our current and potential products and processes are subject to significant federal, state, local, and/or foreign governmental regulation. Regulatory agencies may not allow us to produce and/or market our products in a timely manner or under technically or commercially feasible conditions, or at all, which could harm our business. In the United States, enzyme products for our target markets are regulated based on their use, by either the FDA, the EPA, or, in the case of plants and animals, the USDA. The FDA regulates drugs, food, and feed, as well as food additives, feed additives, and substances generally recognized as safe that are used in the processing of food or feed. While substantially all of our current enzyme projects to date have focused on non-human applications and enzyme products outside of the FDA’s review, in the future we may pursue collaborations for further research and development of drug products for humans that would require FDA approval before they could be marketed in the United States. In addition, any drug product candidates must also be approved by the regulatory agencies of foreign governments before any product can be sold in those countries. Under current FDA policy, our products, or products of our collaborative partners incorporating our technologies or inventions, to the extent that they come within the FDA’s jurisdiction, may be subject to lengthy FDA reviews and unfavorable FDA determinations if they raise safety questions which cannot be satisfactorily answered, if results from pre-clinical or clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if they are deemed to be food additives whose safety cannot be demonstrated. An unfavorable FDA ruling could be difficult to resolve and could prevent a product from being commercialized. Even after investing significant time and expenditures, our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approval for any drug products that incorporate our technologies or inventions. Our collaborators have not submitted an investigational new drug application for any product candidate that incorporates our technologies or inventions, and no drug product candidate developed with our technologies has been approved for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. The EPA regulates biologically derived chemical substances not within the FDA’s jurisdiction. An unfavorable EPA ruling could delay commercialization or require modification of the production process resulting in higher manufacturing costs, thereby making the product uneconomical. In addition, the USDA may prohibit genetically engineered plants from being grown and transported except under an exemption, or under controls so burdensome that commercialization becomes impracticable. Our future products may not be exempted by the USDA. 35 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our contemplated facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. Furthermore, as we operate our business, we may become liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we may arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require expending significant amounts for investigation, cleanup, or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws, or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ethanol production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations and interpretations thereof, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive, and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. In addition, compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, or production efforts. Many competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of biomolecule discovery and optimization from biodiversity is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Technological development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. 36 Table of Contents We face, and will continue to face, intense competition in our business. There are a number of companies who compete with us in various steps throughout our technology process. For example, Dyadic, Codexis and Direvo have alternative evolution technologies; Novozymes A/S and Genencor International Inc. are involved in development, expression, fermentation, and purification of enzymes. There are also a number of academic institutions involved in various phases of our technology process. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do. These organizations may develop technologies that are superior alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors may be more effective at implementing their technologies for modifying DNA to develop commercial products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Current competitors or other companies may develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. The existing approaches of our competitors or new approaches or technology developed by our competitors may be more effective than those developed by us. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our product development programs, harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop our own products. The loss of any key members of our senior management, or business development or scientific staff, or failure to attract or retain other key management, business development or scientific employees, could prevent us from developing and commercializing new products and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the San Diego area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborative partners in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, including molecular biologists, biochemists, and engineers. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. Members of our senior management team have not worked together for a significant length of time and they may not be able to work together effectively to develop and implement our business strategies and achieve our business objectives. Management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and others. If our management team is unable to develop successful business strategies, achieve our business objectives, or maintain positive relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or other key constituencies, including our strategic collaborators and partners, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technologies or acquired through strategic or other transactions. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The inability to acquire these services or to develop this expertise could impair the growth, if any, of our business. 37 Table of Contents We may be sued for product liability. We may be held liable if any product or process we develop, or any product which is made or process which is performed with the use of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, or sale. We currently have limited product liability insurance covering claims up to $10 million that may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, if we attempt to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, this additional insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products or processes developed by us or our collaborative partners. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Macroeconomic conditions beyond our control could lead to decreases in demand for our products, reduced profitability or deterioration in the quality of our accounts receivable. Domestic and international economic, political and social conditions are uncertain due to a variety of factors, including • global, regional and national economic downturns; • the availability and cost of credit; • volatility in stock and credit markets; • energy costs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the risk of global conflict; • the risk of terrorism and war in a given country or region; and • public health issues. Our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and their desire or ability to make investments in technology. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in a way that reduces demand for our products and disrupts our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts. These global, regional or local conditions also could disrupt commerce in ways that could interrupt our supply chain and our ability to get products to our customers. These conditions may also affect our ability to conduct business as usual. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms that are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in the country in which the customer is located. A deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because of these provisions, our common stockholders might not be able to receive a premium on their investment. 38 Table of Contents We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • termination of strategic alliances and collaborations; • the success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; • the ability and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize, market, and sell royalty-bearing products or processes on expected timelines; • our ability to enter into new agreements with potential strategic partners and collaborators or to extend the terms of our existing strategic alliance agreements and collaborations, and the terms of any agreement of this type; • our need to continuously recruit and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to successfully satisfy all pertinent regulatory requirements; • our ability to successfully commercialize products or processes developed independently and the demand and prices for such products or processes and for our existing products; and • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our, and our collaborative partners’, research and development expenditures. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would probably decline. Our stock price has been and may continue to be particularly volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Between January 1, 2006 and March 1, 2012, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.42 to a high of $138.95. Since the completion of our merger with Celunol Corp. on June 20, 2007, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.42 to $81.96. The closing market price of our common stock on December 30, 2011 was $2.18, and the closing price of our common stock on March 1, 2012 was $3.10. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key collaboration agreements and licensing agreements; • any inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms to repurchase the 2007 Notes in April 2012, which we expect we will be required to do, or to fund our operations and pursue our business plan; • our ability to negotiate and enter into definitive agreements related to any financing or sale transaction; • future sales of our common stock or debt or convertible debt securities or other capital-raising activities, and the terms of those issuances of securities; 39 Table of Contents • future royalties from product sales, if any, by our collaborative partners, and the extent of demand for, and sales of, our products; • future royalties and fees for use of our proprietary processes, if any, by our licensees; • the initiation of material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights or otherwise; • our results of operations and financial condition, including our cash reserves, cash burn and cost level; • general and industry-specific economic and regulatory conditions that may affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products; • developments involving our 2007 Notes; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or other products by our competitors; • sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our large stockholders; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • issuance of shares by us, and sales in the public market of the shares issued, upon conversion of the 2007 Notes or exercise of our outstanding warrants; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility related to general economic conditions and may continue to experience volatility for some time. The stock markets have experienced in the past substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. Our officers, directors, and stockholders with at least 10% of our stock together controlled approximately 13% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. If these officers, directors, and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together, could heavily contribute to our entering into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had 12,610,978 shares of common stock outstanding. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 