ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Expanding upon the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. In addition, not all risks and uncertainties are described below. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to - 16 - adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Economic Conditions Our results are affected by general economic conditions in the United States and Canada. A poor economy has historically led to a decline in both business and leisure travel and to lower demand for rental vehicles resulting in lower industry revenues. We have the flexibility to reduce our rental fleet size in the event of an unexpected reduction in rental demand, which partially offsets the related reduction in revenues. The remarketing of vehicles for which we retain the used car market value risk will be subject to prevailing market prices. Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry There is intense competition in the vehicle rental industry, especially on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition. The vehicle rental industry primarily consists of eight major brands, all of which compete strongly for rental customers. A significant increase in industry capacity or a reduction in overall demand could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase rental rates or market share. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season for vehicle rentals. In 2007, the third quarter accounted for over 29% of our vehicle rental revenues and over 45% of our operating income, while the second quarter accounted for over 25% of our vehicle rental revenues and over 27% of our operating income. Any event that disrupts rental activity, fleet supply, or industry fleet capacity during these quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity, our cash flows and/or our results of operations. Dependence on Air Travel We get approximately 90% of our rental revenues from airport locations and airport arriving customers. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry and airline restructuring through bankruptcy may cause airlines to reduce flight schedules which could adversely impact the number of airline passengers. A significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Nevada represented approximately 55% of our total rental revenue in 2007. Reductions in leisure travel to these destinations resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, general economic conditions or other factors would have a material impact on our results. Vehicle Supply and Residual Value Programs Our vehicle supply agreement with Chrysler extends through model year 2011 and we generally purchase 80% to 90% of our vehicles from Chrysler. Under the vehicle supply agreement, we must purchase 75% of our vehicles from Chrysler up to certain targeted volumes and Chrysler has agreed to provide us certain minimum volumes of vehicles. The vehicle supply agreement also requires that 80% of the vehicles at the initial targeted volumes be vehicles covered by a manufacturer program that guarantees the value of the vehicle at the time of sale and 20% of the vehicles be vehicles not covered by a manufacturer program. We have historically acquired more than 75% of our vehicles from Chrysler and annually we evaluate our mix of Program and Non-Program Vehicles. Residual value programs enable us to determine depreciation expense, which is our largest single cost element, on Program Vehicles in advance. Our annual vehicle purchase requirements generally exceed the amounts that Chrysler has agreed to provide under the vehicle supply agreement. We are actively pursuing other vehicle manufacturers to further diversify our vehicle supply in the future to reduce our dependence on a single supplier. For the - 17 - 2007 model year, Chrysler vehicles represented about 88% of the Company’s U.S. fleet purchases. A material diversification of our supplier base may be difficult in an environment where manufacturers are reducing overall supply to the rental car industry. Vehicle manufacturers, including Chrysler, have reduced vehicle supply to the rental car industry and have significantly increased industry vehicle costs for the past few years by increasing Program Vehicle depreciation rates and lowering incentives. The failure of any of the major vehicle manufacturers to sell enough vehicles to the industry could adversely affect our results. Furthermore, if the vehicle manufacturers change the size or terms of their residual value programs, we could experience increased residual value risk or increased depreciation rates on Program Vehicles that could be material to our results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to finance our vehicles. Additionally, if Chrysler defaults on its residual value program for any reason, we could be left with a material unpaid balance from Chrysler with respect to Program Vehicles that were sold for an amount less than the guaranteed residual value or for incentive and reimbursement payments that were not paid. If Chrysler fails to maintain financial viability, we could have difficulty in acquiring the level of fleet purchases we require each year to maintain our vehicle fleet and Chrysler may not be able to provide a vehicle financing facility. Risk in Vehicle Remarketing We have retained the used car market value risk on approximately 45% of our vehicles in 2007 and plan to increase this percentage in 2008. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are highly dependent on used car prices at the time of sale. A significant decline in used car prices related to the vehicles we are selling would have a significant adverse impact on our results. Operating more risk vehicles (vehicles not guaranteed by a vehicle manufacturer) could have a negative impact on the vehicle utilization if we are unable or elect not to sell those vehicles in periods of weaker rental demand. Like-Kind Exchange Program We use a like-kind exchange program for our vehicles where we dispose of our vehicles and acquire replacement vehicles in such a way that we defer the gain on these dispositions for tax purposes. The use of this like-kind exchange program has allowed us to defer a material amount of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2002. In order to get the benefit of the deferral of the gains on disposal of our vehicles, we must acquire replacement vehicles within a specified time frame. Therefore, a downsizing of our fleet or a reduction in vehicle purchases could result in a reduced amount of gain deferrals and increased payments of federal and state cash income taxes, after considering the effect of net operating loss carryforwards. Customer Surcharges In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles and, where permitted, the concession cost imposed by airport authorities or the owners and/or operators of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. Consistent with industry-wide business practices, we separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to customers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice complies with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals in certain states which, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas which may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. Enactment of any of these proposals could restrict our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Fuel Costs Limitations in fuel supplies and significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, either by directly discouraging customers from - 18 - renting cars, causing a decline in airline passenger traffic, or increasing our operating costs, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers. Third Party Internet Sites The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2007, we received 74% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, with 42% coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. The remaining portion of non-tour reservations derived from the Internet were provided by third party Internet sites. No single third party Internet site provides more than 8% of our non-tour reservations. Future changes in the way travel is sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. Beginning in March 2006 and continuing in 2007, we maintain the level of self-insurance of $4.0 million per occurrence, plus a self-insured corridor of $1.0 million per occurrence for losses in excess of $4.0 million with an aggregate limit of $7.0 million for this corridor, and maintain the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability of $5.0 million. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. We self-insure for all losses on supplemental liability insurance policies sold to vehicle rental customers. A significant change in amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. Litigation Relating to the Constitutionality of the Removal of Vicarious Liability The federal Highway Bill removed unlimited vicarious liability for vehicle rental and leasing companies, limiting exposure to state minimum financial responsibility amounts. Before vicarious liability was removed, the owner of a vehicle in certain states would be liable for acts by vehicle drivers even though the vehicle owner was not directly responsible. This federal law supersedes all state laws on vicarious liability for automobile lessors. Since the Highway Bill became law, its constitutionality has been challenged in some state courts, including subsequent appeals. If these provisions of the Highway Bill were overturned, we would be subject to significant exposure to insurance liabilities and higher insurance costs, which would materially impact our results. Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental regulatory requirements related to the ownership, storage or use of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and new and used motor oil; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of waste materials. We have made, and expect to continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures may be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have designed programs to maintain compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including leak detection testing of underground storage tanks, and to provide financial assurance for remediation of spills or releases. However, we cannot be certain that our programs will guarantee compliance with all regulations to which we are subject. Environmental legislation and regulations and related administrative policies have changed rapidly in recent years. There is a risk that governmental environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future and that we may be subject to additional legal proceedings brought by government agencies or private parties for environmental matters. In addition, there may be additional locations of which we are currently unaware at which wastes generated by us may have been released or disposed. In the future, these locations may become the subject of cleanup for which we may be liable, in whole or part. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future environmental liabilities will not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations or cash flows. - 19 - Vehicle Financing and Capital Market Access We depend on the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset backed medium term note programs. We use cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility to provide more collateral for these asset backed medium term note programs. Collateral requirements vary depending on whether the vehicles are covered by manufacturer guaranteed residual value programs and the credit strength of the manufacturer. Collateral requirements are lower for vehicles covered by manufacturer guaranteed residual value programs when the manufacturer also maintains an investment grade credit rating. Adverse changes to the credit ratings of the related manufacturers have materially increased the amount of collateral required to finance our vehicle fleet. Recent volatility in the credit markets and the downgrade or risk of downgrade of the bond insurers for the asset backed medium term note programs (the “Monolines”) has limited the access to the asset backed medium term note market. We do not expect to need to access this market in 2008, but continued disruption in the asset backed medium term note market could materially impact our ability to finance and increase the cost of financing vehicles in the future. A bankruptcy filing by one or more of the Monolines could result in accelerating the payoff schedule of a portion or all of our asset backed medium term notes. We also depend on the bank market to support our asset backed commercial paper vehicle financing programs and other bank vehicle financing facilities. We also utilize a vehicle line from Chrysler’s finance affiliate. If we are unable to renew or maintain these commitments, we may not have sufficient financing for vehicles in 2008. Maintenance of Financial Covenants Our agreements with the Monolines have a minimum net worth covenant and interest coverage covenant. We are in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2007. We will amend the minimum net worth covenant in these agreements to exclude the impact of any potential write-down of our goodwill; or, if not amended, a violation of this covenant can be avoided by providing additional credit enhancement. See the risk factor, “Potential for Goodwill Impairment” in this risk factor section. Our agreements for our asset backed commercial paper programs also have a minimum net worth covenant and interest coverage covenant. We are in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2007. We expect to modify the minimum net worth covenant in these agreements to exclude the impact of any potential goodwill write-down. Our bank revolving credit agreement, term debt and bank and vehicle manufacturer lines of credit require that our corporate debt to corporate EBITDA ratio is maintained within certain limits as defined in the credit agreements. We are in compliance with this covenant at December 31, 2007. Based on our projected levels of corporate debt and corporate EBITDA in 2008, we expect to remain within the required ratios. Because of the volatility in the economy and in our industry generally, there is a risk that our corporate EBITDA could fall below the level required to maintain compliance with this covenant. Interest Rates We incur a large amount of debt to purchase vehicles. While the majority of this debt bears interest at fixed rates due to our interest rate swap agreements, a portion of this debt bears interest at short-term floating rates. Therefore, we are exposed to increases in interest rates. The amount of our financing costs affects the amount we must charge our customers to be profitable. Increased interest rates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations if we are unable to pass increased financing costs through to our customers or if we lose customers to competitors due to increased rental rates resulting from an increase in our financing costs. Outsourcing Arrangements We have an agreement with EDS to handle the majority of our IT services. If EDS fails to meet our required IT needs due to a lack of technical ability or financial condition or otherwise, we may suffer a loss of business functionality and productivity, which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in our relationship with EDS, we may not be able to secure another IT supplier to adequately meet our IT needs on acceptable terms, which could result in performance issues and a significant increase in costs. We have an agreement with PRC to handle a portion of the calls to reserve a car for rental on a future date and to answer questions or handle issues while the renter has our car. If PRC fails to meet our required reservation needs due to lack of qualified personnel or financial condition or otherwise, we may suffer a loss of business which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in - 20 - our relationship with PRC, we may not be able to secure another supplier to adequately meet our reservation needs on acceptable terms, which could result in loss of customers and a decrease in revenues. Communication Networks and Centralized Information Systems We heavily rely on information systems to conduct our business specifically in the areas of reservations, rental transaction processing, fleet management and accounting. We have centralized information systems in disaster resistant facilities maintained by EDS in Tulsa, Oklahoma and we rely on communication service providers to link our system with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, slow the rental transaction processing, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our systems back-up plans, continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, but not to eliminate it. In addition, because our systems contain personal information about our customers, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or that of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Stock price fluctuation We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include but are not limited to: our quarterly or annual earnings or others in the rental car industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; changes in accounting standards, principles or interpretations; overall market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Potential for Goodwill Impairment A significant decline in our stock price could be an indication that our goodwill is impaired. We will continue to monitor and test for potential impairment of goodwill and may be required to write down a portion or all of the approximately $280 million of goodwill on our books if a determination were made that goodwill is impaired. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 