Item 1A. Risk Factors If the Company's allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, the Company's earnings would decrease. The Company is exposed to the risk that its borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more loans may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, the Company may have to write off the loan in whole or in part. In such situations, the Company may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan often exceeds the value of the assets acquired. The Company periodically makes a determination of an allowance for loan losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, the quality of the loan portfolio, certain economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of non-accruing and criticized loans. The Company relies on its loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans, the Company determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, additional expenses will be incurred. 17 Table of Contents Determining the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem credits. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become non-performing assets or that it will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. The Company has in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing its loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that the Company increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance for loan losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in the Company's net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Banks' loan portfolios include commercial loans, which are generally riskier than other types of loans. The Banks' commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios currently comprise 63% of total loans. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. Most of the commercial loans are secured by borrower business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, these types of collateral are more difficult to monitor, harder to value, may depreciate more rapidly and may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Repayment of commercial loans is largely dependent on the business and financial condition of borrowers. Business cash flows are dependent on the demand for the products and services offered by the borrower's business. Such demand may be reduced when economic conditions are weak or when the products and services offered are viewed as less valuable than those offered by competitors. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans, the Banks may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends in the real estate market have adversely affected the banking industry and the Company's business. The Company is particularly affected by downturns in the U.S. real estate market. Declines in the real estate market over the past several years, with decreasing property values and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of commercial and construction, mortgage, and consumer loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions as the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined significantly. In addition, general downward economic trends and continued high levels of unemployment, among other factors, have led to erosion of customer confidence, a reduction in general business activity and increased market volatility. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected its business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the industry. The Company's ability to properly assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Accordingly, if these market conditions and trends continue, the Company may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies, write-offs and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. 18 Table of Contents Geographic concentration of the Company's loans may increase its exposure to credit losses. The Company primarily serves individuals and businesses located in the greater Boston metropolitan area, eastern Massachusetts and, since the acquisition of Bancorp Rhode Island, Rhode Island. The Company's success is largely dependent on the economic conditions, including employment levels, population growth, income levels, savings trends and government policies, in those market areas. While the economy in these market areas has performed better than in other geographic areas, unemployment is nonetheless elevated in relation to historic trends. Continued weakened economic conditions caused by recession, unemployment, inflation, a decline in real estate values or other factors beyond the Company's control could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to service their debt obligations and result in higher loan losses and lower net income. Environmental liability associated with the Company's lending activities could result in losses. In the course of business, the Company may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, the Company might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at its sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. The Company may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Changes to interest rates could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. The Company's consolidated results of operations depend, on a large part, on net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and (ii) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. As a result, the Company's earnings and growth are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on the Company cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can affect the Company's net interest income as well as the value of its assets and liabilities. Changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest-rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, and therefore reduce the Company's net interest income. Further, declines in market interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which in many cases are within the Company's customers' discretion, and which in turn may serve to reduce net interest income if it is unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates. Competition in the financial services industry could make it difficult for the Company to sustain adequate profitability. The Company faces significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions both within and beyond its local market place. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than it does and may offer products and services that it does not, or cannot, provide. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and 19 Table of Contents insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which the Company conducts its business. As a result of these various sources of competition, the Company could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect its profitability. Damage to the Company's reputation could significantly harm its business, including its competitive position and business prospects. The Company's ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if its reputation is damaged. The Company's actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to the Company and its business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject the Company to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and incur related costs and expenses. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict its activities and could have an adverse impact in its operations. The Company is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve. The Banks are subject to regulation and supervision by their respective federal and state regulatory agencies, which currently include the OCC, the FDIC, and the Rhode Island Division of Banking of the Department of Business Regulation. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible nonbanking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The OCC, the FDIC, the Rhode Island Division of Banking of the Department of Business Regulation possess the power to issue cease-and-desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which the Company and the Banks may conduct business and obtain financing. The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on the Company, its customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with the Banks' deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. For example, while the Federal Reserve has proposed rules pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act governing debit card interchange fees that apply to institutions with greater than $10 billion in assets, market forces may effectively require all banks to adopt debit card interchange fee structures that comply with these rules. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the "CFPB," as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has the authority to 20 Table of Contents prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on the Company and its subsidiaries. The Banks will continue to be examined by the OCC and the FDIC for compliance with such rules. The Dodd-Frank Act established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages and the regulatory agencies have focused on the examination and supervision of mortgage lending and servicing activities. Over the past year there has been a heightened regulatory scrutiny of consumer fees, which may result in new disclosure requirements or regulations regarding the fees that the Banks may charge for products and services. Regulators may raise capital requirements above current levels in connection with the implementation of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, which may require the Company and Banks to hold additional capital that could limit the manner in which the Company and its banking subsidiaries conduct its business and obtain financing. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III in the United States, or otherwise, could result in the Company and its banking subsidiaries having to lengthen the term of its funding, restructure its business models, and/or increase its holdings of liquid assets. If the federal banking agencies implement a capital conservation buffer and/or a countercyclical capital buffer, as proposed in Basel III, a failure by the Company or its banking subsidiaries to satisfy the applicable buffer's requirements would limit its ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. To the extent that the Company acquires other companies, its business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. The Company has acquired and will continue to consider the acquisition of other financial services companies. To the extent that the Company acquires other companies in the future, its business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include the following: •The risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management's expectations; •The risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of the Company's businesses; •The risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of the Company's business; •The risk that the Company may lose key employees of the combined business; and •The risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which the Company has limited or no direct prior experience. The Company may be required to write down goodwill and other acquisition-related identifiable intangible assets. When the Company acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2011, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $51 million. Under current accounting standards, if the Company determines that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it would be required to write down the value of these assets. The Company conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. Company management recently completed such an impairment analysis and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company cannot provide assurance whether it will be required to 21 Table of Contents take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on stockholders' equity and financial results and may cause a decline in the Company's stock price. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of the Company's business, given that these systems are used to manage the Company's customer relationships, general ledger, deposits and loans. While the Company has established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of the Company's security systems could deter customers from using the Company's websites and online banking services, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although the Company relies on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises, breaches of security and rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. In addition, the Company outsources certain of its data processing to certain third-party providers and the Company is currently in the process of a conversion of the Company's banking subsidiary data and information processing systems. The conversions are expected to occur in 2012 and 2013. If the Company or its third-party providers encounter difficulties in the conversion, or if the Company has difficulty in communication with them, the Company's ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could damage the Company's reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract and retain qualified key employees, which could adversely affect its business prospects, including its competitive position and results of operations. The Company's success is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled individuals. There is significant competition for those individuals with the experience and skills required to conduct many of the Company's business activities. The Company may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 22 Table of Contents 