Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are significantly affected by weather. Weather has a significant effect on our utility operations, including impacting customer demand and operating revenues. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce operating revenues. In addition, a reduction in precipitation (particularly winter snowpack) can negatively impact our electric resource costs by decreasing hydroelectric generation capability and increasing the costs for fuel to run thermal generation. This also increases the need for cash to purchase electric resources in the wholesale market. Regional precipitation and snowpack conditions typically have a significant effect on the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, high demand for electricity will generally increase the cost of fuel for generation and wholesale market prices. Hydroelectric generation has been below normal (based on a 70-year average) for five of the past seven years. We have no way to predict whether below normal hydroelectric generation will continue in the future. We are subject to commodity price risk. Our utility and energy marketing and resource management activities are subject to electric and natural gas commodity price risk. In general, price risk is the risk of fluctuation in the market price of the commodity needed, held or traded. Changes in wholesale energy prices can affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations, as well as the market value of derivative assets and liabilities, and unrealized gains and losses. Electricity prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • adequacy of generating reserve margins, • scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, • availability of streamflows for hydroelectric generation, • price and availability of fuel for thermal generating plants, and • disruptions of or constraints on transmission facilities. Natural gas prices are affected by a number of factors, including: • adequacy of North American production, • level of imports, • inventory levels, • demand for natural gas as fuel for electric generation, • global energy markets, • availability of pipeline capacity to transport natural gas from region to region, and • oil prices. Demand changes caused by variations in the weather and other factors can also affect market prices for electricity and natural gas. Any combination of these factors that results in a shortage of energy generally causes the market price to move upward. Increasing energy commodity prices have a significant effect on our liquidity. We have regulatory mechanisms in place that provide for the deferral and recovery of the majority of utility power and natural gas supply costs. However, if prices increase above the level currently recovered in retail rates during periods when the utility must purchase energy, power and natural gas deferral balances will increase. This will negatively affect utility operating cash flow and liquidity until such costs, with interest, are recovered from customers. 16 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Deferred power and natural gas costs are subject to regulatory review; costs higher than those recovered in base rates reduce cash flows, and it may take several years for us to recover deferred costs. In our income statement we defer the recognition of certain power and natural gas costs that are higher than what is currently recovered from utility retail customers as authorized by regulators. These excess power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and for the potential of disallowance by state regulators. Despite the opportunity to eventually recover a substantial portion of power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows are negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers. Factors that could cause costs to exceed the levels recovered from customers include, but are not limited to, higher prices in wholesale markets when we are buying energy or an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets. Factors beyond our control that could result in an increased need to purchase energy in the wholesale markets include, but are not limited to: • increases in demand (either due to weather or customer growth), • low availability of hydroelectric resources, • outages at generating facilities, and • failure of third parties to deliver on energy or capacity contracts. We expect that the recovery of current balances of deferred power and natural gas costs may take several years. We are subject to the risk that regulators will not grant sufficient recovery of our costs and not provide a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders. We regularly review the need for electric and natural gas rate changes in each state in which we provide service. General rate increases granted since 2002 have been important steps in our financial recovery primarily through increased operating revenues and operating cash flows. We anticipate that we will continue to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our costs and provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. If regulators were to grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows, which could result in future downgrades to our credit ratings or prevent us from improving our credit ratings. We are subject to credit risk. Credit risk relates to the losses that we would incur as a result of non-performance of contractual obligations by counterparties to deliver energy or make financial settlements. We often extend credit to counterparties and customers, and we are exposed to the risk of not being able to collect amounts owed to us. Changes in market prices may dramatically alter the size of credit risk with counterparties, even when we establish conservative credit limits. Credit risk includes the risk that a counterparty may default due to circumstances: • relating directly to the counterparty, • caused by market price changes, and • relating to other market participants that have a direct or indirect relationship with such counterparty. Should a counterparty, customer or supplier fail to perform, we may be required to replace existing contracts with contracts at then-current market prices or to honor the underlying commitment. Credit risk also involves the exposure that counterparties perceive related to our ability to perform deliveries and settlement under physical and financial energy contracts. These counterparties may seek assurances of performance in the form of: • letters of credit, • prepayment, • cash deposits, and • parent company performance guarantees (pertaining only to Avista Capital guarantees of Avista Energy). The level of exposure can change significantly in periods of price volatility. As a result, sudden and significant demands may be made against our credit facilities and cash. 17 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Commodity trading, marketing and resource management activities may cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations; we cannot, and do not attempt to, fully hedge our assets or positions against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging procedures may not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale. Avista Energy engages in commodity trading and marketing, as well as resource management activities. These activities include entering into financial and physical derivative transactions, and taking speculative positions on future price movements. These activities are conducted within established risk management policies. We are required by applicable accounting principles to record all derivatives on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at estimated fair value. Changes in the estimated fair value of derivatives at Avista Energy are immediately recognized in earnings unless they are designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. Changes in the estimated fair value of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions are deferred and recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged transactions occur and are recognized in earnings. Most of Avista Energy’s contracts are marked-to-market and changes in their value caused by fluctuations in the underlying commodity prices flow through our Consolidated Statements of Income. As a result, fluctuations in commodity prices and the corresponding effect on the market value of derivative instruments at Avista Energy could have a significant effect on operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, with respect to the management of natural gas storage and certain other contracts that are not considered derivatives, our earnings from Avista Energy are subject to variability caused by the differences between the estimated market value and the required accounting for these assets and contracts. To reduce financial and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations at both Avista Utilities and Avista Energy, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit physical energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We utilize physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, we do not always cover the entire exposure of assets or positions to market price volatility and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. Risk management procedures may not prevent losses. In our utility operation and at Avista Energy, we have risk management policies and control procedures designed to measure and mitigate energy market risks. However, these policies and procedures cannot prevent material losses in all possible situations or from all potential causes. Included in Avista Energy’s risk management policies are value-at-risk (VAR) limits and systematic measurement procedures derived from historic price behavior. VAR measures the expected portfolio loss under hypothetical adverse price movements over a given time interval within a given confidence level. Losses could exceed the VAR predictive amounts if prices deviate significantly from their historic patterns and in cases when actual events fall into the extreme end of the VAR confidence interval. In addition, continuing trends of small losses that may be individually less than VAR limits may cumulatively become significant. As a result, there can be no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that could negatively affect our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. We rely on access to credit from banks. We need to maintain access to adequate levels of credit with banks. We have a $320 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in April 2011. We cannot predict whether we will have access to credit beyond the expiration date. The line of credit contains customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on any reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. Avista Energy also needs access to adequate levels of credit from banks and currently has a $145 million committed line of credit, which is scheduled to expire in July 2007. Avista Energy’s credit agreement contains customary covenants and default provisions including, but not limited to, covenants: • to maintain “minimum net working capital” and “minimum net worth”, and • limiting the amount of indebtedness that Avista Energy may incur. 18 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION The credit agreement also contains covenants and other restrictions related to Avista Energy’s trading limits and positions including, but not limited to: • VAR limits, • restrictions on changes in risk management policies or volumetric limits, and • limits on exposure to hourly and daily trading of electricity. These covenants, certain counterparty agreements, and market liquidity conditions result in Avista Energy maintaining certain levels of cash. This effectively limits the amount of cash dividends that are available for distribution to Avista Capital and ultimately Avista Corp. If Avista Energy were unable to continue to obtain credit from banks or other lenders, Avista Energy would likely have insufficient liquidity to meet its obligations. Any default on our line of credit or other financing arrangements at our subsidiaries could result in cross-defaults to other agreements. This could also induce vendors and other counterparties to demand collateral. Downgrades in our credit ratings could limit our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to acquire energy resources. Our credit ratings were downgraded during the fourth quarter of 2001 resulting in an overall corporate credit rating that is below investment grade. The downgrades were due to liquidity concerns primarily related to the significant amount of purchased power and natural gas costs that we incurred in our utility operations. This downgrade has increased debt service costs. We continue to work toward restoring an overall corporate investment grade credit rating. However, any future downgrades could limit our ability to issue debt securities or obtain other financing at reasonable interest rates. In addition, future downgrades could require us to provide letters of credit and/or collateral to lenders and counterparties. An increase in interest rates could negatively affect our future results of operations and cash flows. During the years 2007 through 2009, utility capital expenditures are currently expected to be in the range of $180 million to $190 million per year. In addition to ongoing needs for our utility distribution system, significant projects include the continued enhancement of our transmission system and upgrades to generating facilities. We have $370 million of long-term debt maturities and mandatory preferred stock redemptions in 2007 and 2008, with the majority occurring in 2008. Our forecasts indicate that we will need to issue new securities to fund a significant portion of these requirements in 2008. In 2004, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in market fixed interest rates for $125 million of forecasted debt issuances in 2008. However, rising interest rates could increase future debt service costs and decrease operating cash flows. We are subject to various operational and event risks that are common to the utility industry. Our utility operations are subject to operational and event risks that include: • increases or decreases in load demand, • blackouts or disruptions to transmission or transportation systems, • fuel quality and availability, • forced outages at generating plants, • disruptions to our information systems and other administrative tools required for normal operations, and • natural disasters and terrorism threats that can cause physical damage to our property, requiring repairs to restore utility service. Relicensing our hydroelectric facilities located on the Spokane River at a cost-effective level with reasonable terms and conditions may not be possible. We have six hydroelectric plants on the Spokane River, and five of these are under one FERC license. Collectively, these five plants are referred to as the Spokane River Project. Our license for the Spokane River Project expires on August 1, 2007. We have requested the FERC to consider a license for Post Falls (which has a present capability of 18 MW) that is separate from the other four hydroelectric plants, because Post Falls presents more complex issues that may take longer to resolve than the rest of the Spokane River Project. The relicensing process for the Spokane River Project is a public regulatory process that involves complex natural resource issues. A number of parties have filed either recommended terms and conditions or mandatory conditions 19 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION related to the license applications. We cannot predict the terms and conditions that will ultimately be imposed by the FERC. The costs of these terms and conditions could have a negative effect on our operating expenses and require significant utility capital expenditures reducing net income and cash flows. We also cannot predict whether the FERC will ultimately issue new licenses or whether we will be willing to meet the licensing requirements to continue to operate the Spokane River Project or Post Falls. We plan to request regulatory approval to recover licensing costs. However, we cannot be certain that these costs will be recovered through the rate making process. We are currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings, and we are named in multiple lawsuits related to our participation in western energy markets as disclosed in “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Through our utility operations and Avista Energy, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints with respect to power markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in western power markets in 2000 and 2001. This allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to: • refund proceedings in California and the Pacific Northwest, • market conduct investigations by the FERC, and • complaints filed by various parties related to alleged misconduct by other parties in western power markets. In addition, a class-action shareholder complaint has been filed against us and certain of our current and former executive officers, based on alleged misstatements and omissions of material facts with respect to our energy trading practices in western power markets. As a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from us and our subsidiaries, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information. We are subject to the risk from the potential effects of any legislation or administrative rulemaking. We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules published by government agencies, such as the FERC, NERC and the EPA. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In particular, we may be affected by legislation and administrative rulemaking imposing requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide, or other thermal generation emissions such as mercury. Such requirements, if adopted and applicable, could result in significant costs for utility capital expenditures and increased operating expenses. We have contingent liabilities, as disclosed in “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” and cannot predict the outcome of these matters. We have multiple matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the rate making process. See “Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters. Lake Coeur d’Alene Matter We are liable for compensation (the amount is not yet determined) for the use of portions of the bed and banks of Lake Coeur d’Alene and the St. Joe River. These beds and banks were determined to be property of the Coeur d’Alene Tribe of Idaho. We are in discussions with the Tribe concerning past and future compensation (which may include interest) for use of the portions of the beds and banks of the lake that are owned by the Tribe. If the parties cannot agree on the amount of compensation, the matter could result in litigation. Montana Hydroelectric Litigation A lawsuit was filed in Montana against all private owners of hydroelectric dams in Montana, including Avista Corp. The lawsuit alleges that the hydroelectric facilities are located on state-owned riverbeds and that the owners have never paid compensation to the state’s public school trust fund. The lawsuit was originally filed by private parties and was subsequently joined by other public parties, including the Attorney General of the State of Montana. Various motions for summary judgment and counter claims are pending in the Montana State Court. We expect this matter to proceed in the normal course of litigation, and a trial date is currently scheduled for October 2007. 20 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Other Environmental Matters We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. Environmental issues include, but are not limited to, contamination of certain parcels of land and waters that: • we currently own, • we have formerly owned or have used as a customer, • are adjacent to our property, • are located on the Spokane River, and • are downstream of our hydroelectric facilities and the resulting impact on free ranging fish. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 