ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Expanding upon the factors discussed above under “Factors Affecting Forward-Looking Statements”, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Constraints on our Growth We face constraints on our growth and profitability, given the challenges we face in increasing our market share in the key airport and local markets we serve, high barriers to entry in the insurance replacement market, capital and other constraints on expanding company-owned stores internationally, and the challenges we would face in further reducing our expenses. Economic Conditions Our results are dependent on general economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada, our principal markets. Adverse economic conditions negatively impacted our operations in 2009, and necessitated significant actions to mitigate their impact, including reductions in our rental fleet in response to declining demand, and reductions in our workforce. While economic conditions have improved, uncertainty still remains as to the strength of the current economy. Consumer confidence and spending levels have also improved in 2011; however, there is no assurance that these trends will continue. Favorable economic trends in the United States, our principal market, could also be adversely affected by events outside the United States. These include continuing volatility in the global financial and credit markets, particularly in certain countries in the European Union, concerns about global economic prospects, and the continuing significant political unrest and other concerns involving certain oil-producing countries, which has contributed to price volatility for petroleum products, and in recent periods higher average gasoline prices, which could affect both broader economic conditions and consumer discretionary spending patterns. If economic conditions in the United States deteriorate based on these or other factors, spending on leisure travel could also decline, with consequent negative effects on our results of operations and prospects. - 18 - Adverse economic conditions also affect our customers and franchisees, and some of our franchisees have experienced financial challenges. These circumstances result in reduced fee revenue to the Company and a potential for increased bad debt exposure. Depending on the continued strength of the economy, we may lose customers or our franchisees may become unable to meet their payment obligations to us. Exposure to Used Vehicle Market Conditions We retained the residual value risk on approximately 96% of our vehicles at December 31, 2011 and expect that risk vehicles will account for approximately the same percentage of our fleet in 2012. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are highly dependent on wholesale used vehicle prices at the time of sale, requiring us to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicles at the time of disposal, as well as the general used vehicle auction market. The costs of our risk vehicles may be materially affected by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one to two year old used cars. The strength of the used car market and its impact on residual values is driven by a number of factors, including macroeconomic factors impacting supply and demand for used vehicles, the volume of new vehicles produced by automotive manufacturers and the applicable level of discounts or incentives offered to stimulate sales, the availability of consumer credit to purchase new or used vehicles, and finally, changes in gasoline prices that may impact consumer demand for certain types of vehicles. Additionally, residual values fluctuate seasonally with the lowest values typically in the fourth quarter. While the market has experienced favorable trends during 2011, whether these trends will continue in 2012 remains uncertain. In the event of renewed pricing pressure in the used vehicle market, or if recent events in the Middle East result in significant increases in gasoline prices in the near term, residual values could decrease and our results could be materially and adversely affected. Operating a fleet comprised predominantly of risk vehicles could also have a negative impact on vehicle utilization levels and profitability if we are unable to, or elect not to, sell those vehicles in periods of weaker rental demand. Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry In addition to local and regional vehicle rental companies, the vehicle rental industry primarily consists of nine major brands, all of which compete intensely for rental customers based on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition, requiring companies to be highly competitive in pricing in order to attract consumers. In addition to consumer demand, pricing in the industry is significantly impacted by the size of the rental fleets and the supply of vehicles available to consumers in the market. While we have achieved improvements in our pricing as part of our strategic focus on return on assets in addition to the overall fleeting actions taken by the industry to balance supply with demand, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to realize improved pricing or whether our attempts to do so will adversely affect rental days. A significant increase in the supply of rental vehicles available in the market due to fleet actions taken by our competitors, or actions by our competitors to significantly reduce their prices in order to increase market share or utilization could negatively affect our pricing and other operating plans in material ways and adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Dependence on Domestic Automotive Manufacturers We remain highly dependent on the domestic automotive manufacturers with approximately 75% of our 2012 orders attributable to Chrysler, Ford and General Motors. We have exposure to these manufacturers in three primary areas: their ability to manufacture and deliver vehicles to us in a timely manner and at a competitive price for use in our operations; the level of residual values of their vehicles in the overall used vehicle market, which could be adversely impacted by negative public perception regarding their products or financial prospects and in turn affect our vehicle depreciation costs and collateral requirements; and their ability to meet financial obligations to us for Residual Value Programs and other purchase-related incentives. If any of these companies experience significant financial difficulties and fails to meet its financial or supply obligations to us, our results, financial position, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely affected. - 19 - Dependence on Air Travel Approximately 90% of our rental revenues are attributable to airport locations. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, airline restructuring through bankruptcy, and challenging economic conditions have caused airlines to reduce flight schedules. The airline industry has also faced considerable challenges in light of global economic conditions, severe weather conditions and competitive industry conditions. A significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results, particularly if it occurs during our peak rental season. Dependence on Third-Party Internet Sales The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2011 and 2010, we received 76% and 75% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, respectively, with 42% and 44%, respectively, coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. The remaining non-tour reservations derived from the Internet were attributable to third-party sites, with no third-party site accounting for more than 10% of those non-tour reservations. Future changes in the way travel-related services are marketed and sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third-party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Texas represented approximately 60% of our total rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. The severe decline in consumer spending in recent periods materially adversely affected leisure travel and could be expected to do so again in the future. Reductions in leisure travel resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other factors could also have a material adverse impact on our results if consumer spending does not rebound to more favorable levels. Fuel Costs Prices for petroleum-based products, including gasoline, have experienced significant volatility in recent periods and affected automotive travel patterns in material ways. A variety of factors, including the current economic environment, the continuing significant political unrest and other concerns involving certain oil-producing nations, could cause further price volatility. Reduced fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, either by directly discouraging customers from renting cars, causing a decline in airline passenger traffic, or increasing our operating costs, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers. Vehicle Financing Considerations The rental car industry is capital intensive, and we depend on access to the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset-backed medium-term notes and variable funding note programs. We expect to have substantial debt and debt service requirements in the foreseeable future. Based on our completion in 2011 of $1.5 billion in new asset-backed financing, we believe conditions in the asset-backed financing markets have improved significantly, but we cannot assure you that these conditions will be sustained if the credit markets experience disruptions or volatility as the economy continues to recover from the financial crisis. Asset-backed financing facilities require varying levels of collateral enhancement, which we provide through a combination of vehicles, cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility. - 20 - Enhancement levels are determined by rating agencies and are dependent on a number of factors, including the fleet mix of Program versus Non-Program Vehicles as well as the credit ratings of vehicle manufacturers and the Company. There can be no assurance that collateral enhancement requirements on future asset-backed financings will not increase significantly. The Company’s strategy is to maintain a predominately risk fleet, with risk vehicles comprising approximately 96% of our vehicle inventory as of December 31, 2011. If residual values of our risk vehicles decline significantly or we experience cumulative losses on the disposition of risk vehicles exceeding a specified percentage of the aggregate value of our fleet, we could be required to increase the monthly depreciation payments under our asset-backed medium-term notes during the remaining life of the vehicles, increase the level of collateral enhancement, or both. Such payments or increase in collateral enhancement would reduce our liquidity available for other purposes. Restrictions and Restrictive Covenants Certain of our vehicle financing and credit facilities contain covenants that, among other things, limits or restricts our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: · dispose of assets; · incur additional indebtedness; · incur guarantee obligations; · prepay other indebtedness; · pay dividends or make share repurchases; · create liens on assets; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · make investments, loans, advances or capital expenditures; · make acquisitions; · engage in mergers or consolidations; · change the business conducted by us; and · engage in certain transactions with affiliates. On February 16, 2012, the Company terminated its existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities (hereinafter defined) and replaced it with a new $450 million revolving credit facility (the “New Revolving Credit Facility”) that expires in February 2017. Under the New Revolving Credit Facility, we are subject to a maximum corporate leverage ratio of 3.0 to 1.0, a minimum corporate interest coverage ratio of 2.0 to 1.0, and a minimum corporate EBITDA requirement of $75 million. In connection with the entry into the New Revolving Credit Facility, the financial covenants previously applicable under our Series 2010-3 variable funding notes and our Series 2011-2 medium-term notes were replaced, pursuant to the terms of the related series supplements, by financial covenants identical to the three described in the preceding sentence. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants will depend on our financial and operating performance, and a violation of any of them could result in an event of default under these facilities, entitling the relevant lenders to exercise remedies against us, such as acceleration of the maturity of the relevant indebtedness or, in the case of our asset-backed notes to the extent such covenants are applicable, in an early amortization event. While a default is continuing under our New Revolving Credit Facility, we would be prohibited from further borrowings and issuances of letters of credit, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A default or event of default under one of our debt agreements may also result in a default or event of default under other debt agreements, with similar adverse consequences to us. There can be no assurance that the relevant lenders would waive any such violation or that a waiver or replacement financing would be available to us on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In the absence of a waiver or the availability of replacement financing, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. - 21 - We are also subject to operational limitations under the terms of our asset-backed financing programs, including percentage limitations on the number of vehicles purchased from specified manufacturers and on the number of Program Vehicles in the fleet. These may prevent us from making opportunistic vehicle purchases in order to obtain cost savings that might otherwise be available through a manufacturer subject to the limitations. These limitations could also impact our targeted fleet mix in ways that adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Like-Kind Exchange Program We use a Like-Kind Exchange Program (hereinafter defined) for our vehicles where we dispose of our vehicles and acquire replacement vehicles in such a way that we defer the gain on these dispositions for tax purposes. The use of this Like-Kind Exchange Program has allowed us to defer a material amount of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2002. In order to obtain the benefit of the deferral of the gains on disposal of our vehicles, we must acquire replacement vehicles within a specified time frame, and must also maintain or increase the overall size of our fleet comparable to the prior tax year. Our ability to defer the gains on the disposition of our vehicles under our Like-Kind Exchange Program is affected by significant downsizing of our fleet. Projection of the results under the Like-Kind Exchange Program is complex, requires numerous assumptions and is not subject to precise estimation. Actual results depend upon future sale and purchase transactions extending up to 180 days after year-end and actual results may differ from current projections. The Company’s ability to continue to defer the reversal of prior period tax deferrals will depend on a number of factors, including the size of the Company’s fleet, as well as the availability of accelerated depreciation methods in future years. Accordingly, the Company may make material cash federal income tax payments in future periods. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season for vehicle rentals. Any event that disrupts rental activity, fleet supply, or industry fleet capacity during the second and third quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity, our cash flows and/or our results of operations in those periods and for the full year. Customer Surcharges In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles and, where permitted, the concession cost imposed by airport authorities or the owners and/or operators of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. Consistent with industry-wide business practices, we separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to customers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. This standard practice complies with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals in certain states that, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas that may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. Enactment of any of these proposals could restrict our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Laws and Regulations We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and Canada and other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. - 22 - Optional insurance products, including supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. As a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, if customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the U.S. and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for car rental services could be affected, or our vehicle costs and/or other costs could increase and our business could be adversely affected. Laws in many jurisdictions limit the types of information that may be collected about individuals with whom we transact business, as well as how we collect, retain and use the information that we are permitted to collect. The regulations applicable to privacy and data security are rapidly evolving, and additional regulations in those areas, some of which is difficult for us to accommodate, are often proposed and occasionally adopted. Privacy and data security regulations could have an adverse effect on our business through hindering our transaction processing activities and/or through the resulting cost of complying with such regulations. Additionally, it is possible that we could face significant liability for failing to comply with such requirements or new requirements as they are adopted. We are subject to Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, which require periodic audits by independent third parties to assess compliance. PCI data security standards are a comprehensive set of requirements for enhancing payment account data security that was developed by the PCI Security Standards Council comprised of the major credit card companies to help facilitate the broad adoption of consistent data security measures. Failure to comply with the security requirements as identified in subsequent audits or to rectify a security issue may result in fines. Although unlikely, restrictions on accepting payment cards may be imposed on companies that are not compliant and fail to timely remediate this non-compliance. While we have not been subject to any fines or limitations on our ability to accept payment cards, there is no assurance that we will not incur fines or such limitations in the future. Low Cost Structure Our low cost structure has historically been one of our primary competitive advantages, as it has allowed us to offer low cost vehicle rentals and drive rental transactions to our brands. Our inability to maintain our low cost structure could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. In an effort to maintain control over our operating expenses, we have implemented cost reduction initiatives. These initiatives include, among other things, headcount reductions, business process re-engineering and internal reorganizations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to implement cost reduction initiatives to offset increasing fixed costs or, that we can do so without adversely affecting customer service levels and employee morale, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. Manufacturer Safety Recalls Our vehicles may be subject to safety recalls by their manufacturers. Under certain circumstances, the recalls may cause us to attempt to retrieve cars from customers and cause us to decide not to re-rent vehicles until we can arrange for the repairs described in the recalls to be completed. We could face liability claims if recalls affect vehicles that we have already sold. - 23 - If a large number of vehicles are subject to simultaneous recalls, or if needed replacement parts are not available, we may not be able to re-rent recalled vehicles for a significant period of time. These types of disruptions could jeopardize our ability to satisfy demand for our vehicles, or could result in the loss of business to our competitors. Depending on the severity of any manufacturer recall, it could have a material and adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. In both 2011 and 2010, we maintained the level of self-insurance of $7.5 million per occurrence for public liability and property damage claims, including third-party bodily injury and property damage, and maintained the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability of $5.0 million. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. We self-insure for all losses on supplemental liability insurance policies sold to vehicle rental customers. A significant change in the amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental regulatory requirements related to the ownership, storage or use of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and new and used motor oil; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of waste materials. We have made, and expect to continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures may be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have designed programs to maintain compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including leak detection testing of underground storage tanks, and to provide financial assurance for remediation of spills or releases. However, we cannot be certain that our programs will guarantee compliance with all regulations to which we are subject. Environmental legislation and regulations and related administrative policies have changed rapidly in recent years. There is a risk that governmental environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future and that we may be subject to additional legal proceedings brought by government agencies or private parties for environmental matters. In addition, there may be additional locations of which we are currently unaware at which wastes generated by us may have been released or disposed. In the future, these locations may become the subject of cleanup for which we may be liable, in whole or part. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future environmental liabilities will not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Dependence on Outsourcing Arrangements HP handles the majority of our IT services. If HP fails to meet its obligations in all material respects as and when required under our agreement, we may suffer a loss of business functionality and productivity, which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in our relationship with HP, we may not be able to secure another IT supplier to adequately meet our IT needs on acceptable terms, which could result in performance issues and a significant increase in costs. Dependence on Communication Networks and Centralized Information Systems We heavily rely on information systems to conduct our business specifically in the areas of reservations, rental transaction processing, fleet management and accounting. We have centralized information systems in disaster resistant facilities maintained by HP in Tulsa, Oklahoma and we rely on communication service providers to link our system with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, slow the rental transaction processing, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. - 24 - Our system back-up plans, continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, but not to eliminate it. Our systems contain personal information about our customers. Our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or that of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Table of Contents None. 