RISK FACTORS The Company is subject to a number of significant uncertainties and risks, including, without limitation, those described below and those described elsewhere in this Annual Report, any of which may affect the Company in a manner and to a degree which cannot be foreseen at this time. General Risk Factors Need for additional capital. Exploration, development and acquisition of oil and gas reserves is a capital-intensive business. The Company makes, and will continue to make, substantial expenditures for exploration and development of oil and gas. Historically, the Company has financed operations primarily with proceeds from the sale of its equity securities in private offerings. The Company expects to satisfy its working capital requirements from cash flow and by raising capital through public or private sales of debt or equity securities, debt financing or short-term loans, or a combination of the foregoing. The Company has no current arrangements for obtaining additional capital, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to secure additional capital, or on terms which will not be objectionable to the Company or its then existing shareholders. Under such circumstances, the failure or inability of the Company to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company also has an unfunded liability in the amount of CDN $7,956,349 in relation to a Judgment against the Company (See "Oakwell Litigation", "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Critical Accounting Estimates" and "Item 8A7 - Litigation" below). If the Judgment is enforced in Ontario, Canada, the Company’s financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Experienced a history of losses and limited operating history. To date, we have incurred significant losses. The Company has a limited operating history upon which any evaluation of the Company and its long-term prospects might be based. The Company commenced its business plan for the exploitation of oil and gas in February of 2001. The Company is subject to the risks inherent in the oil and gas business. The Company and its prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by all companies engaged in the extremely volatile and competitive oil and gas industry. Any future success the Company might achieve will depend upon - 11 - many factors, including factors which will be beyond its control. These factors may include changes in technologies, price and product competition, developments and changes in the international oil and gas market, changes in the Company's strategy, changes in expenses, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, general economic conditions (both in the United States and Canada), and economic and regulatory conditions specific to the areas in which the Company competes, among others. To address these risks, the Company must, among other things, continue to respond to competitive developments; attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; implement and successfully execute its business plan; comply with environmental regulations; expand its portfolio of proven and prospective oil and gas properties and /or negotiate additional working interests and prospect participations; and expand and replace de pleting oil and gas reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in addressing these risks. Variability of operating results. The Company's operating results may in the future fluctuate significantly depending upon a number of factors including industry conditions, oil and gas prices, rate of drilling success, rates of production from completed wells and the timing of capital expenditures. Such variability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any failure or delay in the realization of expected cash flows from operating activities could limit the Company's future ability to continue exploration and to participate in economically attractive oil and gas projects. Foreign exchange. As energy commodity prices are primarily priced in US dollars a portion of our revenue stream is affected by U.S./Canadian dollar exchange rates. We do not hedge this exposure. While to date this exposure has not been material it may become so in the future. In addition to oil and gas commodity prices our investment in Konaseema EPS Oakwell Power Limited ("KEOPL") is priced in Indian Rupees ("INR"). As the Canadian dollar appreciates the value of our investment depreciates. The Oakwell Engineering Limited ("Oakwell") Claim is priced in US dollars and costs are priced in Singapore dollars and the Company tends to carry a nominal balance of currency carried in US dollars. These US and Singapore denominated balances are susceptible to changes in the exchange rate between Canada and the US and Canada and Singapore. Foreign law may hinder our ability to repatriate foreign held investments. There may be restrictions on the withdrawal of capital or repatriation of dividends from a country in which the Company or one of its investment affiliates is operating. There is no assurance that the laws of any jurisdiction in which the Company holds investments or locates its assets may not change in a manner that materially and adversely affects the investments of the Company. The North American Free Trade Agreement. On January 1, 1994, the North American Free Trade Agreement among the governments of Canada, the United States and Mexico became effective. In the context of energy resources, Canada continues to remain free to determine whether exports to the United States or Mexico will be allowed, provided that any export restrictions do not: (i) reduce the proportion of energy resource exported relative to domestic use (based upon the proportion prevailing in the most recent 36 month period); (ii) impose an export price higher than the domestic price; or (iii) disrupt normal channels of supply. All three countries are prohibited from imposing minimum export or import price requirements and, except as permitted in enforcement of countervailing and antidumping orders and undertakings, minimum or maximum import price requirements. The North American Free Trade Agreement contemplates the reduction of Mexican restrictive trade practices in the energy sector and prohibits discriminatory border restrictions and export taxes. The North American Free Trade Agreement also contemplates clearer disciplines on regulators to ensure fair implementation of any regulatory changes and to minimize disruption of contractual arrangements, which is important for Canadian natural gas exports. Insurance. The Company’s involvement in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties may result in the Company becoming subject to liability for pollution, blow-outs, property damage, personal injury or other hazards. Although the Company carries insurance in accordance with industry standards to address such risks, such insurance has limitations on liability that may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of such liabilities. In addition, - 12 - such risks may not, in all circumstances be insurable or, in certain circumstances, the Company may elect not to obtain insurance to deal with specific risks due to the high premiums associated with such insurance or other reasons. The payment of such uninsured liabilities would reduce the funds available to the Company. The occurrence of a significant event that the Company is not fully insured against, or the insolvency of the insurer of such event, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or prospects. Failure to Realize Anticipated Benefits of Acquisitions and Dispositions. The Company makes acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets in the ordinary course of business. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on successfully consolidating functions and integrating operations and procedures in a timely and efficient manner as well as the Company’s ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and synergies from combining the acquired businesses and operations with those of EnerNorth. The integration of acquired business may require substantial management effort, time and resources and may divert management’s focus from other strategic opportunities and operational matters. Management continually assesses the value and contribution of services provided and assets required to provide such services. In this regard, non-core assets are periodically disposed of, so that the Company can focus its efforts and resources more efficiently. Depending on the state of the market for such non-core assets, certain non-core assets of the Company, if disposed of, could be expected to realize less than their carrying value on the financial statements of the Company. Management of Growth. The Company may be subject to growth-related risks including capacity constraints and pressure on its internal systems and controls. The ability of the Company to manage growth effectively will require it to continue to implement and improve its operational and financial systems and to expend, train and manage its employee base. The inability of the Company to deal with this growth could have a material adverse impact on its business, operations and prospects. Loss of key personnel could harm our business. Our ability to continue our business and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and maintain qualified management and personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our development to date has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of our key executive officers, management and employees, including James C. Cassina, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, Sandra J. Hall, our President and Secretary and Scott T. Hargreaves, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Potential Conflicts of Board and Committees. Some of the directors and officers of the Company are or may serve on the board of directors of other companies from time to time. To avoid the possibility of conflicts of interest which may arise out of their fiduciary responsibilities to each of the boards, all such directors have agreed to abstain from voting with respect to a conflict of interest between the applicable companies. In appropriate cases, the Company will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which a director, or a member of management, may have a conflict. Reliance on expertise of certain persons. The Company is dependent on the advice, expertise and project management skills of various consultants including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and joint venture partners contracted by the Company from time to time. Legal Proceedings. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Company has pending litigation, actions or proceedings as described below which could have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or profitability. Oakwell Litigation Singapore/Ontario In March 1997, Oakwell Engineering Limited, a Singapore corporation ("Oakwell"), and the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board of the state of Andhra Pradesh, India (the "APSEB") executed two identical Power Purchase Agreements ("PPA’s"), providing for Oakwell and/or its sponsors to build, own and operate two identical 100 mega watt ("MW") net capacity diesel generator Barge Mounted Power Plants ("BMPPs"), fueled by furnace oil (total - 13 - 200 MW net capacity) and sell electricity to APSEB on a take-or-pay basis for 15 years. In June 1997, the Company and Oakwell formed an 87.5%/12.5% joint venture and incorporated an Indian company, EPS Oakwell Power Limited ("EOPL") (now known as KEOPL), to implement the provisions of the PPA’s. Disputes rose between the Company and Oakwell and a Settlement Agreement was reached in December 1998 under which Oakwell sold the Company all of Oakwell's interest in the PPA’s and in EOPL. In July 2002, Oakwell claimed the Company was in breach of the Settlement Agreement and in August 2002, the Company was named as a defendant in the High Court of the Republic of Singapore ("High Court of Singapore"), in the matter of Oakwell vs. the Company. On October 16, 2003 the High Court of Singapore ordered the Company to pay Oakwell US $5,657,000 (approximately CDN $6,933,219 at June 30, 2005) plus costs (the "Judgment"). On November 13, 2003 the Company appealed the Judgment to the Court of Appeal of the Republic of Singapore. That Court, which is the final Court of Appeal for Singapore, dismissed the appeal on April 27, 2004. On June 21, 2004, Oakwell filed an Application with the Superior Court of Justice for the Province of Ontario, Canada (the "Superior Court") seeking to enforce the Judgment in Ontario. On August 30, 2004, the Company filed an Application with the Superior Court for a declaration that the Judgment is not enforceable in the Province of Ontario. The hearing of the Applications was held December 6-9, 2004. On June 27, 2005 the Superior Court judge rendered his decision that the Judgment was enforceable in Ontario with costs and on August 2, 2005 the Superior Court issued the formal Order. On July 13, 2005, the Company filed a Notice of Appeal of the August 2, 2005 Order of the Superior Court with the Court of Appeal for the Province of Ontario. The Company anticipates the hearing of the Appeal to be held in early 2006 and the decision of the Court of Appeal to be rendered by the end of 2006. On January 12, 2005, Oakwell filed an Execution Petition before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi, India against the Company for enforcement of the Judgment and an application for interim relief seeking attachment of the Company’s 11,848,200 KEOPL Shares, 100% of the shares of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary EPS Karnataka Power Corp. ("EPS Karnataka"), which owns 97% of Euro India Power Canara Private Limited an Indian corporation ("EIPCL"). EIPCL has a PPA secured by a cash deposit in the amount of Indian Rupees ("INR") 10,000,000 (approximately CDN $281,700 at June 30, 2005) with the Karnataka State Electricity Board. On September 9, 2005 the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi, India adjourned Oakwell’s Execution Petition to attach the Company’s KEOPL Shares, EPS Karnataka shares and EIPCL but ordered that if the Company receives any payments from the sale of it’s KEOPL Shares, then the proceeds shall be deposited in the Company’s account held in a Public Sector Bank in India or invested only in Government of India securities until the disposal of Oakwell’s Execution Petition. The Execution Petition is ongoing and the hearing has been adjourned to February 3, 2006 (See "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Critical Accounting Estimates" and "Item 8A7 - Litigation" below). VBC Arbitration Award and Litigation As of June 30, 2005 the Company owns 11,848,200 common shares, par value Indian Rupee ("INR") 10 (the "KEOPL Shares") in Konaseema EPS Oakwell Power Limited ("KEOPL") formerly known as EOPL. Pursuant to an Arbitration Agreement between the Company and VBC Ferro Alloys Ltd. ("VBC"), the parent company of KEOPL, an Arbitration Award was passed on October 11, 2003 by Hon’ble Arbitral Tribunal, India (the "Award or Decree") requiring as follows (i) VBC transfer an additional 500,000 equity shares in KEOPL to the Company, and (ii) VBC to buy the original KEOPL Shares for INR 113,482,000 (approximately CDN $3.2 million at June 30, 2005) on or before the earlier of: (a) 60 days after the first disbursal of funds on financial closure for the KEOPL Project, and, (b) in any event no later than March 31, 2004. Further, the Company may, upon written notice to VBC, require that VBC purchase, and VBC is then required to buy, an additional 500,000 equity shares of KEOPL at a par value of INR 5,000,000 (approximately CDN $140,850 at June 30, 2005) on or before the same dates. If VBC does not buy the 11,348,200 KEOPL Shares before March 31, 2004 then VBC is liable to pay the Company interest at 12% per annum on the value of the unredeemed shares from March 31, 2004 to the date of actual payment thereof. - 14 - On February 28, 2004 the Company provided written notice to effect the purchase by VBC of the 11,348,200 KEOPL Shares held by the Company. VBC raised a dispute regarding the purchase of the KEOPL Shares and on June 24, 2004 the Company filed an Execution Petition against VBC in the Court of the Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad, India ("City Civil Court") to enforce the Award. The Execution Petition is ongoing and the hearing has been adjourned until October 21, 2005. On November 30, 2004 the Company also filed a Company Petition against VBC in the High Court of Judicature of Andhra Pradesh, India (the "High Court") to pass an order for the winding up of VBC under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (India). On April 29, 2005 the High Court passed an Order for the winding up of VBC and awarded the Company costs of the Petition. VBC appealed before the Division Bench in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, India to set aside the Order of the High Court 0dated April 29, 2005. On June 8, 2005 the Division Bench of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, India passed an Order granting VBC an interim stay of publication of the winding up of VBC only subject to the condition of VBC depositing one-third (1/3rd) amount of the Decree passed in pursuance of the Award along with the interest earned on the principal amount to the credit of Execution Petition on the file of Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad, India on or before July 30, 2005. On September 6, 2005 the High Court passed a further Order extending the date for deposit of one-third (1/3rd) amount of the Decree to September 30, 2005. On August 1, 2005, the Company filed a Special Leave Petition in the Supreme Court of India seeking special leave to appeal the Order of the Division Bench in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, India dated June 8, 2005. The hearing has been set for October 3, 2005. (See "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Critical Accounting Estimates" and "Item 8A7 - Litigation" below). Investment in Marketable Securities The Company’s investments in Marketable Securities is carried at the lower of book value or market value. The actual market value is determined by external factors that are beyond the control of the Company and may fluctuate materially. Causes of fluctuation include but are not isolated to changes in oil and gas commodities as much of the Company's portfolio is dominated by oil and gas investments. The portfolio is also influenced by the individual performance of each company as well as the performance of the overall market and economy. As a result, the Company could be exposed to a significant decline in the market value of its entire investment in marketable securities. If the market value of its marketable securities decreased significantly it would have a material adverse effect on the income and cash flow of the Company. Risk Factors Relating to Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production Uncertain discovery of viable commercial prospects. The Company's future success may be dependent upon its ability to economically locate commercially viable oil or gas deposits. The Company can make no representations, warranties or guaranties that it will be able to consistently identify viable prospects, or that such prospects will be commercially exploitable. An inability of the Company to consistently identify and exploit commercially viable hydrocarbon deposits would have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business and financial position. Risk of exploratory drilling activities. Under the Company's business plan, revenues and cash flow will continue to be principally dependent upon the success of drilling and production from prospects in which the Company participates. The success of such prospects will be determined by the economical location, development and production of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Exploratory drilling is subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected formation and drilling conditions, pressure or other irregularities in formations, blowouts, equipment failures or accidents, as well as weather conditions, compliance with governmental - 15 - requirements and/or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The inability to successfully locate and drill wells that will economically produce commercial quantities of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and, financial position. Drilling and explorations plans subject to change. This Annual Report includes descriptions of the Company’s prospective future drilling and explorations plans with respect to its properties. A prospect is a property which the Company and its partners have identified based on available geological and geophysical information that indicate the potential for hydrocarbons. The Company's properties are in various stages of exploration and development. Whether the Company ultimately drills a property may depend on a number of factors including funding; the receipt of additional seismic data or reprocessing of existing data; material changes in oil or gas prices; the costs and availability of drilling equipment; success or failure of wells drilled in similar formations or which would use the same production facilities; changes in estimates of costs to drill or complete wells; the Company's ability to attra ct industry partners to acquire a portion of its working interest to reduce exposure to drilling and completion costs; decisions of the Company's joint working interest owners; and/or restrictions under provincial regulators. Restrictions on development and production as a non-operator. The Company holds minority interests in certain of its properties, and therefore cannot control the pace of an exploration/development program effecting the drilling of wells, or a plan for development and production. If a majority partner decides to accelerate development of a program it may exceed the Company's ability to meet its share of costs at a faster pace than anticipated, and may surpass the Company's ability to further finance its ongoing proportional obligation to fund costs. If the Company were unable to meet its funding obligations with respect to one or more prospect(s), its proportional working interest in such prospects(s) would be diluted. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices. The ultimate profitability, cash flow and future growth of the Company will be affected by changes in prevailing oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices have been subject to wide fluctuations in recent years in response to changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, competition, regulatory developments and other factors which are beyond the control of the Company. It is impossible to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. The Company does not engage in hedging activities. As a result, the Company may be more adversely affected by fluctuations in oil and gas prices than other industry participants that do engage in such activities. An extended or substantial decline in oil and gas prices would have a material adverse effect on (i) the Company's access to capital; and (ii) the Company 's financial position and results of operations. Increased operating costs. Higher operating costs for our underlying properties will directly decrease the amount of cash flow received by the Company. Electricity, chemicals, supplies, reclamation and abandonment and labour costs are a few of the operating costs that are susceptible to material fluctuation. Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. Although the Company conducts title reviews in accordance with industry practice prior to any purchase of resource assets, such reviews do not guarantee that an unforeseen defect in the chain on title will not arise and defeat our title to the purchased assets. If such a defect were to occur, our entitlement to the production from such purchased assets could be jeopardized. Lower oil and gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-down. During 2004, the Company adopted the recommendations of the new CICA Handbook guideline AcG-16. As a result of applying the new standards, management determined that a transitional impairment loss of CDN $1,945,786 should be recorded as at July 1, 2003. There is an ongoing risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. We may experience additional ceiling test write-downs in the future (See "Item 5.G - Safe Harbour - Critical Accounting Policies - Oil and gas accounting and reserve estimates" below). Uncertainty of estimates of reserves and future events. Certain statements included in this report contain estimates of the Company's oil and gas reserves and the discounted future net revenues from those reserves, as prepared by independent petroleum engineers and/or the Company. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in such estimates including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The estimates are based on a number of assumptions - 16 - including constant oil and gas prices, and assumptions regarding future production, revenues, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves. Such estimates are inherently imprecise indications of future net revenues, and actual results might vary substantially from the estimates based on these assumptions. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves. In addition, the Company's reserves might be subject to revisions based on upon future production, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Moreover, estimates of the economically recoverable oil and gas reserves, classifications of such reserves and estimates of future net cash flows prepared by independent engineers at different times may vary substantially. I nformation about reserves constitutes forward-looking statements. Ability to replace reserves. The future success of the Company depends upon its ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. As a result the Company must locate, acquire and develop new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. Without successful funding, for acquisitions and exploration and development activities, the Company's reserves will decline. No assurances can be made that the Company will be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Competition. The Company engages in the exploration for and production of oil and gas, industries which are highly competitive. The Company competes directly and indirectly with major and independent oil and gas companies in its exploration for and development of desirable oil and gas properties. Many companies and individuals are engaged in the business of acquiring interests in and developing oil and gas properties in the United States and Canada, and the industry is not dominated by any single competitor or a small number of competitors. Many of such competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, as well as greater historical market acceptance than the Company. The Company will compete with numerous industry participants for the acquisition of land and rights to prospects, and for the equipment and labor required to operate and develop such prospects. Competition could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. Such competitive disadvantages could adversely affect the Company's ability to participate in projects with favorable rates of return. Enforcement of Operating Agreements. Operations of the wells on properties not operated by the Company are generally governed by operating agreements, which typically require the operator to conduct operations in a good and workmanlike manner. Operating agreements generally provide, however, that the operator will have no liability to the other non-operating working interest owners for losses sustained or liabilities incurred, except such as may result from gross negligence or wilful misconduct. Shortage of Supplies and Equipment. The Company’s ability to conduct operations in a timely and cost effective manner is subject to the availability of natural gas and crude oil field supplies, rigs, equipment and service crews. Although none are expected currently, any shortage of certain types of supplies and equipment could result in delays in our operations as well as in higher operating and capital costs. Interruption from Severe Weather. The Company’s operations are conducted principally in the central region of Alberta, and the northeastern region of British Columbia. The weather in these areas can be extreme and can cause interruption or delays in our drilling and construction operations. Dependence on Third-Party Pipelines. In fiscal 2005, substantially all our sales of natural gas production was effected through deliveries to local third-party gathering systems to processing plants. In addition, the Company relies on access to interprovincial pipelines for the sale and distribution of substantially all of our gas. As a result, a curtailment of our sale of natural gas by pipelines or by third-party gathering systems, an impairment of our ability to transport natural gas on interprovincial pipelines or a material increase in the rates charged to us for the transportation of natural gas by reason of a change in federal or provincial regulations or for any other reason, could have a material adverse effect upon us. In such event, we would have to obtain other transportation arrangements. There can be no assurance that we would have economical transportation altern atives or that it would be feasible for - 17 - us to construct pipelines. In the event such circumstances were to occur, our netbacks from the affected wells would be suspended until, and if, such circumstances could be resolved. Operating Hazards and Uninsured Risks. The oil and gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including fire, explosion, pipe failure, casing collapse, abnormally pressured formations, adverse weather conditions, governmental and political actions, premature reservoir declines, and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks and discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events with respect to any property operated or owned (in whole or in part) by us could have a material adverse impact on us. The Company and the operators of our properties, maintain insurance in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts that we believe to be reasonable. However, insurance coverage is not always economically feasible and is not obtained to cover all types of operational risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not insured or insured fully could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Restoration, Safety and Environmental Risk. Our operations are primarily in western Canada and, in particular, the western provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. Certain laws and regulations exist that require companies engaged in petroleum activities to obtain necessary safety and environmental permits to operate. Such legislation may restrict or delay us from conducting operations in certain geographical areas. Further, such laws and regulations may impose liabilities on us for remedial and clean-up costs, personal injuries related to safety and environmental damages, such liabilities collectively referred to as "asset retirement obligations". To ensure that the Company provides for future estimated asset retirement obligations, the Company has estimated the future cost to clean up all its wellsite facilities to be CDN $268,708 and the current cost to be CDN $173,204 using a credit-adjusted risk free discount rate of 5 percent at June 30, 2005. While the Company cannot predict the ultimate cost, the Company’s independent engineering consultants assist us in assessing its total asset retirement obligations related to removal and clean-up costs. While the Company’s safety and environmental activities have been prudent in managing such risks, there can be no assurance that the Company will always be successful in protecting itself from the impact of all such risks. Expiration of Licenses and Leases. The Company's properties are held in the form of licenses and leases and working interests in licenses and leases. If the Company or the holder of the licence or lease fails to meet the specific requirement of a licence or lease, the licence or lease may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each licence or lease will be met. The termination or expiration of the Company's licenses or leases or the working interests relating to a licence or lease may have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business. Canadian Government Regulation and Industry Conditions Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto protocol, ratified by the Canadian federal government in December 2002, came into force on February 16, 2005. The protocol commits Canada to reducing greenhouse gas emissions to six percent below 1990 levels over the period 2008-2012. The Canadian government released a framework outlining its Climate Change action plan on April 13, 2005. The plan contains few technical details regarding the implementation of the government’s greenhouse gas reduction strategy. The Climate Change Working Group of the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers continues to work with the Canadian and Alberta governments to develop an approach for implementing targets and enabling greenhouse gas control legislation, which protects the industry’s competitiveness, limits the cost and administrative burden of compliance and supports continued investment in the sector. As the Canadian government has yet to release a detailed Kyoto compliance plan, the Company is unable to predict the impact of potential regulations upon its business; however, it is possible that the Company would face increases in operating costs in order to comply with the greenhouse gas emissions legislation. Compliance with governmental regulations. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive controls and regulations imposed by various levels of the federal and provincial governments in Canada. It is not expected that any of these controls or regulations will affect the operations of the Company in a manner materially different than they would affect other oil and gas companies of similar size. All current legislation is a matter of public record and the Company is unable to accurately predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted. All of the - 18 - governmental regulations noted below may be changed from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Company management believes that the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental laws and regulations will continue. The implementation of new or modified environmental laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company. Canadian Government Regulation and Environmental Matters. The Company is subject to various Canadian federal and provincial laws and regulations relating to the environment. The Company believes that it is currently in compliance with such laws and regulations. However, such laws and regulations may change in the future in a manner which will increase the burden and cost of compliance. In addition, the Company could incur significant liability under such laws for damages, clean-up costs and penalties in the event of certain discharges into the environment. In addition, environmental laws and regulations may impose liability on the Company for personal injuries, clean-up costs, environmental damage and property damage as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. The Company maintains limited insurance coverage for accidental environmental damages, but does not maintain insurance for the full potentia l liability that could be caused by such environmental damage. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to significant liability, or may be required to cease production in the event of the noted liabilities. Provincial regulation - royalties and incentives. In addition to federal regulation, each province has regulations which govern land tenure, royalties, production rates, extra-provincial export, environmental protection and other matters. The royalty regime is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and natural gas production. Royalties payable on production from lands other than Crown lands are determined by negotiations between the mineral owner and the lessee. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production. The rate of royalties payable generally depends in part on prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type or quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time the provincial governments of Canada have established in centive programs which have included royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays and tax credits for the purpose of encouraging oil and natural gas exploration or enhanced planning projects. Land Tenure. Crude oil and natural gas located in the western provinces is owned predominantly by the respective provincial governments. Provincial governments grant rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas pursuant to leases, licences and permits for varying terms from two years and on conditions set forth in provincial legislation including requirements to perform specific work or make payments. Oil and natural gas located in such provinces can also be privately owned and rights to explore for and produce such oil and natural gas are granted by lease on such terms and conditions as may be negotiated. India Risk Factors Relating to Investments in Independent Power Projects Development of Independent Power Projects ("IPPs") cannot be assured. The successful completion of IPPs can be particularly difficult in countries, which have not uniformly embraced privatization, or where politically motivated opposition is routinely mounted to initiatives of the existing leadership. In addition, the development of IPPs sometimes results in litigation or threatened litigation, which may need to be resolved before successful development of IPPs can occur. Our investment in IPPs may not function properly or may suffer damages. Our investment in IPPs involve many risks, including the failure of equipment or the performance of equipment at levels below those originally projected, whether due to unexpected wear and tear, misuse or unexpected degradation. Any of the foregoing could significantly reduce or eliminate project revenues, thereby reducing any net income from the project. In addition, catastrophic events could result in personal injury, loss of life, destruction of project assets or suspension of project operations. Although the affiliated owner/operators may maintain insurance to protect against certain risks, the insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover reduced revenues or, other liabilities arising from any of the events described above. - 19 - Uncertain political and economic conditions could affect our investments. General political and economic conditions in India could significantly affect the project's prospects. The economics of India differ significantly from the economics of other developed countries in many respects, including levels of capital reinvestment, growth rate, government involvement, resource allocation, rate of inflation and balance of payments position in international trade. The success of the Indian projects may depend upon the existence of a political, and judicial economic environment, which will accommodate project development. In addition, future government actions in India concerning the operation and regulation of power plants have and will have a significant effect on project operations. There can be no assurance that future government actions over wh ich we have no control will not materially adversely affect a project's operations. Foreign operations entail legal risks. Material agreements to which we are a party relating to contracts for equity participation in power facilities located in India may be governed by the laws of that or another country, and there are no assurances that such agreements can be enforced in Canadian courts or elsewhere. The inability to enforce such agreements in Canada may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s investments. In addition, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies in India may be subject to considerable discretion. The projects may be adversely affected by new laws and changes to existing laws (or interpretations thereof). Foreign regulatory risks. Power projects in India are subject to governmental and electric power regulation in virtually all aspects of their operations, including, but not limited to, the amount and timing of electricity generation, the performance of scheduled maintenance, compliance with power grid control and dispatch directives, foreign ownership restrictions, dividend separation restrictions and restrictions on fuel access. There can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be received and the time and expense of obtaining such approvals cannot be accurately predicted. Recoverability of Foreign Investment. The Company owns 11,848,200 common shares of KEOPL, which is developing a power project in Andhra Pradesh, India. These KEOPL Shares are being held as an investment, and the Company estimates that the carrying amount of the investment in KEOPL will be fully recovered. However, the actual recoverable amount is dependent upon future events and foreign exchange and could differ materially from the amount estimated by management. (See "Item 5 - Operating and Financial Review and Prospects - Critical Accounting Estimates" and "Item 8A-7 - Litigation" below). Risks Relating to the Company's Common Stock Possible volatility of stock price. The market price for the Company's Common Stock may be volatile and is subject to significant fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the liquidity of the market for the Common Stock, variations in the Company's quarterly operating results, regulatory or other changes in the oil and gas industry generally, announcements of business developments by the Company or its competitors, litigations and judgments, changes in operating costs and variations in general market conditions. Because the Company has a limited operating history, the market price for the Company's Common Stock may be more volatile than that of a seasoned issuer. Changes in the market price of the Company's securities may have no connection with the Company's operating results. No predictions or projections can be made as to what the prevailing market price for the Company's Commo n Stock will be at any time. Public trading market. There is only a limited public market for the Company's Common Stock, and no assurance can be given that a broad and/or active public trading market will develop or be sustained. The Company's Common Stock trades on the American Stock Exchange ("AMEX") and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to meet and maintain listing requirements on either stock exchange. In addition, apart from automatic listing exemptions, the Common Stock has not been qualified under any applicable state blue-sky laws, and the Company is under no obligation to so qualify the Common Stock, or otherwise to take action to improve the public market for such securities. The Company's Common Stock could have limited marketability due to any of the following factors, each of which could impair the market for such securities: (i) lack of profits, (ii) need for addi tional capital, (iii) the limited public market for such securities; (iv) the applicability of - 20 - certain resale requirements under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended; (v) applicable blue sky laws, (vi) litigations and judgments and the other factors discussed in this Risk Factors section. No likelihood of dividends. The Company plans to retain all available funds for use in its business, and therefore does not plan to pay any cash dividends with respect to its securities in the foreseeable future. Hence investors in the Common Stock should not expect to receive any distribution of cash dividends with respect to such securities. No assurance of liquidation distribution. If the Company were to be liquidated or dissolved, holders of shares of its capital stock would be entitled to share ratably in its assets only after satisfaction of the Company's liabilities. After satisfaction of those liabilities and satisfaction of any liquidation preference with respect to any then outstanding senior securities of the Company, the holders of the Common Stock would share ratably in any remaining assets of the Company. There can be no assurance that there would be any remaining assets or any distribution to shareholders after the payment of third party obligations and any liquidation preferences. We will incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant accounting, legal, governance, compliance and other expenses that private companies do not incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. The Company expects these rules and regulations to increase its legal, audit and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a public company, we are required to create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, the Company will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. The Company also expects these rules and regulations to m ake it more difficult and more expensive for the Company to obtain director and officer liability insurance and the Company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. The Company is in the process of assessing the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting in connection with the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is required in connection with the filing of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. While management anticipates expending significant resources in an effort to compl ete this important project, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its objective on a timely basis. There also can be no assurance that our auditors will be able to issue an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the Company’s on-going assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting, the Company may discover "material weaknesses" in its internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB"). A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines "significant deficiency" as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. While the Company has not identified any material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting that would cause it to deem such internal controls ineffective, the Company will retain additional resources and will work to obtain the requisite training for others in the Company to remediate any deficiencies. However, the Company cannot provide any assurance that additional testing of its internal controls will not uncover additional deficiencies - 21 - that, when aggregated with any other unremediated deficiencies, would result in a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. In the event that a material weakness is identified, the Company will employ qualified personnel and adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses that is identified. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires the Company to anticipate and react to changes in its business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy its reporting obligations as a public company. The Company cannot assure you that the measures it will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that the Company will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. Any failure to complete an assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that it may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm its operating results, cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in its financial statements. Any such failure also could adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of the Company’s internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that the Company may identify, would adversely affect the annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Com pany’s reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of the Company’s Common Stock. Potential issuance of additional stock. The Company is currently authorized to issue, on or before November 5, 2005, up to an additional 4,059,009 shares in one or more private placements. At the Annual and Special Meeting scheduled for November 14, 2005, management will seek shareholder approval of a resolution permitting the Company to issue up to 100% of the outstanding shares (or 4,059,009 shares as of the date of this Annual Report) in one or more private placements to be completed on or before November 14, 2006. In December 2002, a majority of the Company’s shareholders approved a resolution authorizing the Company to issue up to 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock from time to time (or a total of 705,243 shares as of the date of this Annual Report) in connection with the Company’s stock option plan. As of the date of this Annual Report, 615,000 of such options have been issued. The issuance of additional shares of Common Stock could adversely reduce the proportionate ownership and voting rights and powers of the present holders of the Common Stock, and could also result in dilution in the net tangible book value per share of Common Stock. There can be no assurance that the Company will not issue additional shares of its Common Stock. 