Item 1A. Risk Factors Changes to Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company makes most of its earnings based on the difference between interest it earns and interest it pays. This difference is called the "interest spread." The Company earns interest on loans and, to a much lesser extent, on securities and short-term investments. These are called "interest-earning assets." The Company pays interest on most forms of deposits and on funds it borrows from other sources. These are called "interest-bearing liabilities." The Company's interest spread can change depending on when interest rates earned on interest-earning assets change and when interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities change. Some rate changes occur while these assets or liabilities are still on the Company's books. Other rate changes occur when these assets or liabilities mature and are replaced by new interest-earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities at different rates. It may be difficult to replace interest-earning assets quickly, since customers may not want to borrow money when interest rates are high, or the Company may not be able to make loans that meet its lending standards. The Company's interest spread may also change based on the mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The Company's interest spread may be lower if the timing of interest rate changes is different for its interest-earning assets than it is for its interest-bearing liabilities. For example, if interest rates go down, the Company will earn less on some of its interest-earning assets while it is still locked into paying higher rates on some of its interest-bearing liabilities. On the other hand, if interest rates go up, the Company might have to pay more on some of its interest-bearing liabilities while it is still locked in to receiving lower rates on some of its interest-earning assets. While the Company manages this risk using different techniques, future fluctuations in interest rates could have a significant effect on its operating results. Achievement of our Goal to Grow Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Loan Portfolios Will Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risk. Our goal is to grow our commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolios. These segments, which are already a significant part of our loan portfolio, normally generate higher interest yields but also pose greater risk to credit losses than from other loan segments. Achievement of our goal will increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Repayment of commercial real estate and commercial loans depends on the financial condition of borrowers and the effect the economy can have on the borrowers' business. Deterioration in economic conditions could cause vacancy rates in properties financed by the Company to rise resulting in a 16 Table of Contents decline in cash flows available to service debt obligations and in the value of the properties securing the loans. Most of the commercial loans made by the Company are secured by borrower business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, these types of collateral are more difficult to monitor, harder to value, may depreciate more rapidly and may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Repayment of commercial loans is largely dependent on the business and financial condition of borrowers. Business cash flows are dependent on the demand for the products and services offered by the borrower's business. Such demand may be reduced when economic conditions are weak or when the products and services offered are viewed as less valuable than those offered by competitors. Geographic Concentration of Our Loans May Increase Our Exposure to Credit Losses. Much of the Company's business is concentrated in the greater Boston metropolitan area and eastern Massachusetts. Our success is largely dependent on the economic conditions, including employment levels, population growth, income levels, savings trends and government policies, in those market areas. While the economy in these market areas has performed better than in other geographic areas, unemployment is nonetheless elevated in relation to historic trends. Continued weakened economic conditions caused by recession, unemployment, inflation, a decline in real estate values or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect the ability of borrowers to service their debt obligations and result in higher loan losses and lower net income. Declining Real Estate Values Could Increase Our Loan Losses. Much of our loan portfolio is secured by commercial and residential real estate located in the geographic market areas where we conduct our business. Over the past few years, real estate values have declined, thus increasing the possibility of becoming inadequately secured and exposed to greater risk of loss if borrowers no longer can service their debt obligations. Continuation of existing real estate values or further erosion of such values could result in higher loan losses and lower net income. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Would Decrease. The Company is exposed to the risk that customers will not be able to repay their loans. This risk is inherent in the lending business. There is also the risk that the customers' collateral will not be sufficient to cover the balance of their loans, as underlying collateral values fluctuate with market changes. The Company maintains the allowance for loan losses at a level that is deemed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, based on a quarterly evaluation of a variety of factors. While the Company seeks to use the best available information to make its evaluations, and at December 31, 2010, management believed that the allowance for loan losses was adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio, it is possible that borrower defaults could exceed the current estimates for loan losses. In addition, future increases to the allowance for loan losses may be necessary based on changes in economic conditions, results of regulatory examinations, further information obtained regarding known problem loans, increasing charge-offs of existing problem loans, or the identification of additional problem loans and other factors. The occurrence of these events could require additions to our allowance for loan losses and decrease our net income. Our goal of growing commercial real estate and commercial loans will expose us to greater credit risk and will likely require us to add to our allowance for loan losses by further charges to net income. 17 Table of Contents The Cost of Acquisitions and Other Growth Initiatives Could Have an Adverse Effect on Earnings. On February 28, 2011, the Company expects to acquire First Ipswich. (See note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein for information about the acquisition.) Additionally, in recent years, the Company has recruited experienced loan officers to expand commercial business lending and, in 2009 and 2010, recruited personnel to expand cash management services and to offer investment advisory services. While acquisitions and other growth activities are important to the long-term success of the Company, there are risks associated with such initiatives. The initiatives often require investments and expenditures that can have a negative effect on operating results in the short-term and cause significant adverse consequences if the initiatives are not executed satisfactorily. Competitor Initiatives Could Make it Difficult for Us to Sustain Adequate Profitability. The Company faces significant competition for loans and deposits from other banks and financial institutions both within and beyond its local market place. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we do and may offer products and services that we do not, or cannot, provide. Many competitors are also willing to offer loans at lower rates or deposits at higher rates than the Company is offering. To compete with the pricing offered by competitors can result in lower profitability for the Company. Changes in Federal and State Regulation Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The banking business is heavily regulated by the federal and state governments. Banking laws and rules are for the most part intended to protect depositors and borrowers, not stockholders. Banking laws and rules can change at any time. The government agencies responsible for supervising the Company's business can also change the way they interpret these laws and rules, even if the rules themselves do not change. We need to make sure that our business activities comply with any changes in these rules or the interpretation of the rules. We might be less profitable if we have to change the way we conduct business in order to comply. Our business might suffer in other ways as well. Changes in state and federal tax laws can make our business less profitable. Changes in the accounting rules we are required to follow may also make us less profitable. Changes in the government's economic and monetary policies may hurt our ability to compete for deposits and loans. Changes in these policies can also make it more expensive for us to do business. The government agencies responsible for supervising our business can take drastic action if they think we are not conducting business safely or are too weak financially. They can force us to hold additional capital, pay higher deposit insurance premiums, stop paying dividends, stop making certain kinds of loans or stop offering certain kinds of deposits. If the agencies took any of these steps or other similar steps, it would probably make our business less profitable. Systems Failures, Interruptions or Breaches of Security Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger, our deposits and our loans. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our web site and our online banking service, both of which involve the 18 Table of Contents transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty in communication with them, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely impacted. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in Technology Could Make it Difficult for Us to Compete Effectively. The provision of financial products and services is highly dependent on technology. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and, therefore, on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 