Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have an adverse impact in our operations. We and our banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the FRB. Our banking subsidiaries are also subject to regulation and supervision by state banking regulators and the FDIC. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. The FRB, the FDIC and the state banking regulators have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the FRB possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and our banking subsidiaries may conduct business and obtain financing. Our business is also affected by the monetary policies of the FRB. Changes in monetary or legislative policies may affect the interest rates that our banking subsidiaries must offer to attract deposits and the interest rates it must charge on loans, as well as the manner in which it offers deposits and makes loans. These monetary policies have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant effects on the operating results of depository institutions generally, including our banking subsidiaries. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. It is impossible to predict the competitive impact that any such changes would have on the banking and financial services industry in general or on our business in particular. Such changes may, among other things, increase the cost of doing business, limit permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See the "Supervision and Regulation" section of Item 1, "Business." Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Act comprehensively reformed the regulation of financial institutions, products and services. Because many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, it is difficult to forecast the impact that such rulemaking will have on us, its 17 Table of Contents customers or the financial industry. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that affect deposit insurance assessments, the payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees could increase the costs associated with our banking subsidiaries' deposit-generating activities, as well as place limitations on the revenues that those deposits may generate. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB. The CFPB has the authority to prescribe rules for all depository institutions governing the provision of consumer financial products and services, which may result in rules and regulations that reduce the profitability of such products and services or impose greater costs on the Company and its subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act also established new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages, and the regulatory agencies have focused on the examination and supervision of mortgage lending and servicing activities. The CFPB recently issued a final rule that requires creditors, such as our banking subsidiaries, to make a reasonable good faith determination of a consumer's ability to repay any consumer credit transaction secured by a dwelling. The rule provides creditors with minimum requirements for making such ability-to-repay determinations. See "Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd-Frank Act" in Item 1, "Business." Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions, and regulations, including those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and related regulations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. We may become subject to more stringent capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. The federal banking agencies have issued three joint proposed rules, or the "proposed capital rules," that implement the Basel III capital standards and establish the minimum capital levels required under the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposed capital rules establish a minimum common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% of risk-weighted assets for a "well capitalized" institution, and increase the minimum total Tier 1 capital ratio for a well-capitalized institution from 6% to 8%. Additionally, the proposed capital rules require an institution to establish a capital conservation buffer of common equity Tier 1 capital in an amount equal to 2.5% of total risk weight assets above the 6.5% minimum risk-based capital requirement. The proposed capital rules also phase out trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital and increase the required capital for certain categories of assets, including higher-risk residential mortgages, higher-risk construction real estate loans and certain exposures related to securitizations, and remove the filter for accumulated other comprehensive income in the current capital rules which currently prevents unrealized gains and losses from being included in the calculation of the institution's capital. The federal banking agencies extended the deadline for the proposed capital rules to go into effect and indicated that final rules would be issued in 2013. The final capital rules may differ significantly in substance or in scope from the proposed capital rules. However, the final capital rules are expected to increase our capital requirements and related compliance costs. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally and locally. Continued weakness in the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business. Although there are indications that the U.S. economy is stabilizing, the outlook remains uncertain amid concerns about public debt levels and financial market conditions. In addition, international developments relating to European sovereign debt, in the Middle East, and elsewhere are affecting financial markets and oil and commodities prices. A deterioration of business and economic conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of our loans, results of operations and financial condition. Increases in loan delinquencies and default rates could adversely impact our loan charge-offs and provision for loan and lease losses. Deterioration or defaults made by issuers of the underlying collateral of our investment securities may cause additional credit-related other-than-temporary impairment charges to our income statement. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. Continued deterioration in local economies or real estate market may adversely affect our business. We primarily serve individuals and businesses located in the greater Boston metropolitan area, eastern Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and Rhode Island. Our success is largely dependent on the economic conditions, including employment levels, population growth, income levels, savings trends and government policies, in those market areas. While the economy in the Boston metropolitan area has improved, economic conditions in New York, New Jersey and Rhode Island are not as strong. Unemployment rates as of December 2012 were lower than the national average in Massachusetts, though higher than the national average in Rhode Island, New York and New Jersey, and remain elevated in all states compared to historical trends. Continued weakened economic conditions caused by recession, unemployment, inflation, a decline in real estate values or other factors beyond our control may adversely affect the ability of our borrowers to service their debt obligations, and could result in higher loan and lease losses and lower net income for us. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses, our earnings would decrease. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may default on their obligations. A borrower's default on its obligations under one or more loans or leases may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work-out of the loan or lease. In certain situations, where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable work-out arrangements cannot be reached, we may have to write off the loan or lease in whole or in part. In such situations, we may acquire real estate or other assets, if any, that secure the loan or lease through foreclosure or other similar available remedies, and often the amount owed under the defaulted loan or lease exceeds the value of the assets acquired. We periodically make a determination of an allowance for loan and lease losses based on available information, including, but not limited to, the quality of the loan and lease portfolio, certain economic conditions, the value of the underlying collateral and the level of nonaccruing and criticized loans and leases. Management relies on its credit quality reviews, its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of provision required for the allowance for loan and lease losses. Provisions to this allowance result in an expense for the period. If, as a result of general economic conditions, previously incorrect assumptions, or an increase in defaulted loans or leases, we determine that additional increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses are necessary, additional expenses will be incurred. 19 Table of Contents Determining the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time, there are likely to be loans and/or leases in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become nonperforming assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans and leases that are identified. We have in the past been, and in the future may be, required to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan and lease portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans and leases, identification of additional problem loans and leases and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses, we will need additional increases in its allowance for loan and lease losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The effects of Hurricane Sandy may negatively impact collateral values or loan originations in the areas in which we do business. On October 29, 2012, Hurricane Sandy made landfall in New Jersey, causing widespread property damage throughout the northeastern United States, including areas in which we operate, with the most significant impact in the New York City metropolitan area, Long Island, and New Jersey. Rhode Island and Connecticut were also affected. While there are no known losses at this time, we continue to monitor and assess the extent to which collateral values associated with loans and leases may have been reduced and repair costs have risen, both of which could necessitate additional provisions to the allowance for loan and lease losses. In addition, the disruption in utilities, transportation, and communications systems in the affected areas may reduce our volume of loan and lease originations or other operational functions. Our loan and lease portfolios include commercial real estate mortgage loans and commercial loans and leases, which are generally riskier than other types of loans. Our commercial real estate and commercial loan and lease portfolios currently comprise 68.3% of total loans and leases. Commercial loans and leases generally carry larger balances and involve a higher risk of nonpayment or late payment than residential mortgage loans. Most of the commercial loans and leases are secured by borrower business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and other fixed assets. Compared to real estate, these types of collateral are more difficult to monitor, harder to value, may depreciate more rapidly and may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Repayment of commercial loans and leases is largely dependent on the business and financial condition of borrowers. Business cash flows are dependent on the demand for the products and services offered by the borrower's business. Such demand may be reduced when economic conditions are weak or when the products and services offered are viewed as less valuable than those offered by competitors. Because of the risks associated with commercial loans and leases, we may experience higher rates of default than if the portfolio were more heavily weighted toward residential mortgage loans. Higher rates of default could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liability associated with our lending activities could result in losses. In the course of business, we may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans originated or purchased that are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we might be 20 Table of Contents required to remove these substances from the affected properties at its sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the financial services industry could make it difficult for us to sustain adequate profitability. We face significant competition for loans, leases and deposits from other banks and financial institutions both within and beyond its local marketplace. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than it does and may offer products and services that it does not, or cannot, provide. The ability of non-banking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because non-banking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct our business. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or could be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect its profitability. Changes to interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our consolidated results of operations depend, on a large part, on net interest income, which is the difference between (i) interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans, leases and securities, and (ii) interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. As a result, our earnings and growth are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, to events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the FRB. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on us cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. An increase in interest rates could also have a negative impact on our results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs, but also necessitate further increases to our allowances for loan losses. A decrease in interest rates may trigger loan prepayments, which may serve to reduce net interest income if we are unable to lend those funds to other borrowers or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates. Our securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on our results of operations. Unrealized losses on investment securities result from changes in credit spreads and liquidity issues in the marketplace, along with changes in the credit profile of individual securities issuers. Under GAAP, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of our securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts' evaluations, our ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit-related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to our earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of 21 Table of Contents our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our operations and future growth. We and our banking subsidiaries must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. To manage liquidity, we draw upon a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. These sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our ability to manage liquidity will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. In addition, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover its costs. In this case, operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Financial and operating counterparties expose us to risk. We maintain correspondent bank relationships, manage certain loan participations, engage in securities transactions and engage in other activities with financial counterparties that are customary in the financial services industry. We also utilize services from major vendors of technology, telecommunications and other essential operating services. There is financial and operating risk in these relationships, which we seek to manage, in part, through internal controls and procedures, but there is no assurance that we will not experience loss or interruption of its business as a result of unforeseen events involving these counterparties, including our technology partners. Damage to our reputation could significantly harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is damaged. Our actual or perceived failure to address various issues could give rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects. These issues also include, but are not limited to, legal and regulatory requirements; properly maintaining customer and employee personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; sales and trading practices; ethical issues; appropriately addressing potential conflicts of interest; and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions and legal risks, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and incur related costs and expenses. Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent on capital distributions from our subsidiary banks, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. We are a separate entity from our subsidiary banks. A substantial source of our income is the receipt of dividends from our subsidiary banks, which we use to service debt, pay obligations, and pay stockholder dividends. The availability of dividends from our subsidiary banks is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of our subsidiary banks and other factors, that applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If one or more of our subsidiary banks is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt or pay dividends on our common stock. The 22 Table of Contents inability to receive dividends from our subsidiary banks would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. To the extent that we acquire other companies, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. We have acquired and will continue to consider the acquisition of other financial services companies. To the extent that we acquire other companies in the future, our business may be negatively impacted by certain risks inherent with such acquisitions. These risks include the following: •The risk that the acquired business will not perform in accordance with management's expectations; •The risk that difficulties will arise in connection with the integration of the operations of the acquired business with the operations of our businesses; •The risk that management will divert its attention from other aspects of our business; •The risk that we may lose key employees of the combined business; and •The risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience. We may be required to write down goodwill and other acquisition-related identifiable intangible assets. When we acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable tangible and intangible assets acquired determines the amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill acquired. At December 31, 2012, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were $159.4 million. Under current accounting standards, if we determine that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, it would be required to write down the value of these assets. We conduct an annual review to determine whether goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are impaired. Company management recently completed such an impairment analysis and concluded that no impairment charge was necessary for the year ended December 31, 2012. We cannot provide assurance whether it will be required to take an impairment charge in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on stockholders' equity and financial results and may cause a decline in our stock price. Systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, given that these systems are used to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, deposits, and loans and leases. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures, interruptions and security breaches, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, any compromise of our security systems could deter customers from using our websites and online banking services, both of which involve the transmission of confidential information. Although we rely on commonly used security and processing systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises, breaches of security and rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our ongoing core processing system conversion exposes us to operational and financial risks. We outsource certain of our data processing to certain third-party providers and we are currently in the process converting our banking subsidiaries' core data and information processing systems to a single vendor. Two of our banking subsidiaries were converted in 2012; the conversion of the third is scheduled to be completed in 2013. Core systems conversions involve extensive planning and operational changes which may affect bank account records, customer service delivery, internal procedures, technology risk management, and other significant operating activities. The conversion from one vendor to another can involve conversion costs and creates the risk of contract and performance disputes and the possible disruption of service to customers. If we or our third-party providers encounter difficulties in the conversion, our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions could be affected, and its business operations could be adversely impacted. Our controls, procedures and policies may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well-designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. We seek to monitor and control its risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate its risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified key employees, which could adversely affect our business prospects, including our competitive position and results of operations. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled individuals. There is significant competition for those individuals with the experience and skills required to conduct many of our business activities. We may not be able to hire or retain the key personnel that it depends upon for success. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining loan loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience 24 Table of Contents material losses. See the "Critical Accounting Policies" section in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Changes in accounting standards can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to anticipate and implement and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Future capital offerings may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or our banking subsidiaries' capital ratios fall below required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt, common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, and senior or subordinated notes. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Moreover, we cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: •quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets; •operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; •announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; •the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; •our past and future dividend practices; •future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and •changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility. 25 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us, even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 