ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Table of Contents Expanding upon the factors discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section provided at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements that we made. Risks that we do not know about could arise and issues we now view as minor could become more important. If we are unable to adequately respond to any of these risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Economic Conditions Our results are dependent on general economic conditions in the U.S. and Canada, our principal markets, and on the U.S. automotive industry in particular. Adverse economic conditions negatively impacted our operations in 2008 and 2009, and necessitated significant actions to mitigate their impact, including reductions in our rental fleet in response to declining demand, and reduction in our workforce. While the economic outlook for 2010 has improved slightly, as compared to 2009, the timing and strength of a recovery remains uncertain, and we believe that consumer confidence and spending levels will remain at relatively low levels, including spending on leisure travel from which we derive a significant portion of our revenues. Adverse economic conditions have also affected some of our customers and franchisees. For example, in 2008, one of our largest tour operator customers filed for bankruptcy. Additionally, some of our franchisees experienced financial challenges and a limited number of them either closed or consolidated their operations in 2009. These circumstances have resulted in reduced fee revenue to the Company and a potential for increased bad debt exposure. Depending on the timing and strength of a recovery, we may lose other customers or our franchisees may become unable to meet their payment obligations to us. - 18 - - Liquidity Considerations In 2009, our primary objective was to preserve liquidity and enhance operating cash flow to ensure our flexibility to withstand continued adverse economic conditions in 2009 and the potential that these conditions could persist in 2010. The actions we have taken may not be adequate if economic conditions deteriorate further or do not improve in line with our expectations. In that event, we may need to take additional material actions, including further reductions in our fleet that could in turn cause disruptions to our business, operations and prospects, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity. Vehicle Financing Considerations We depend on the capital markets for financing our vehicles using primarily asset backed medium term notes. We use cash and letters of credit under our bank loan facility to provide enhancement collateral for these asset backed medium term notes. We expect to have substantial debt and debt service requirements in the foreseeable future. The financial crisis that began in 2008 affected our access to financing and our results. In late 2008 and 2009, we amended our credit arrangements repeatedly to address matters affecting our covenant compliance, the impact of the bankruptcy of Chrysler and a potential event of bankruptcy relating to any monoline or bond insurer that provides credit support for our medium term note obligations (“Monoline”). As a condition to some of these amendments, we reduced outstanding debt and agreed to permanent reductions in the lending commitments. If a default were to occur under our financing arrangements, our lenders could be entitled to accelerate our repayment of outstanding debt and exercise their remedies against any collateral securing the debt, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results, financial condition and prospects. An event of bankruptcy by one or more of the Monolines could also result in accelerating the payoff schedule of a portion or all of those notes. Collateral requirements for our credit arrangements vary depending on the manufacturer’s credit rating and whether the vehicle is a risk vehicle or is covered by a manufacturer's Residual Value Program. We substantially increased the level of risk vehicles in our fleet in 2009 and expect that risk vehicles will account for approximately 90% to 95% of our fleet in 2010. If the residual value of our risk vehicles declines significantly or we experience cumulative losses on disposition of a specified percentage of our fleet, we could be required to increase the monthly depreciation payments under our asset backed medium term notes during the remaining life of the vehicles, increase the level of collateral enhancement, or both. These payments would reduce our liquidity available for other purposes. We believe conditions in the asset backed medium term note market have improved during late 2009, and we expect to have adequate access to the credit markets to fund our operations and refinance existing debt. We believe that any new financing could bear higher interest rates and require a substantially higher collateral enhancement rate than our current asset backed medium term notes. Our ability to provide increased collateral enhancement with respect to future debt will depend on the amount of operating cash and letters of credit available to us. In the event we are unable to meet these higher collateral requirements, we will be required to reduce the size of our financing and our operating fleet, which could in turn negatively affect our operations, results and prospects. In addition, our financing costs affect the amount we must charge our customers to be profitable. Interest rates on future debt issuances that exceed our current effective rates could adversely affect our results if we are unable to pass those costs through to our customers or if we lose customers to competitors due to increased rental rates. Dependence on Domestic Automotive Manufacturers The domestic automotive industry has been materially adversely affected by recessionary conditions in 2008 and 2009, with two of the three manufacturers restructuring their operations under U.S. bankruptcy laws. Historically, Chrysler has been our principal vehicle supplier and, while we have diversified our suppliers as part of our 2010 vehicle ordering cycle, we will remain highly dependent on the domestic automotive manufacturers with approximately 84% of our 2010 orders attributable to Ford, Chrysler and General Motors. It remains uncertain whether actions by these companies, coupled with the impact of federal assistance they have received and other governmental stimulus programs will be sufficient to withstand continued pressures on the domestic automotive manufacturers. - 19 - - We have exposure to these manufacturers in three primary areas: their ability to manufacture and deliver vehicles to us in a timely manner for use in our operations; the level of residual values of their vehicles in the overall used vehicle market, which could be adversely impacted by negative public perception regarding their products or financial prospects and in turn affect our vehicle depreciation costs and collateral requirements; and their ability to meet financial obligations to us for Residual Value Programs and other purchase-related incentives. If any of these companies experiences significant financial difficulties, fails to meet its financial or supply obligations to us, or is forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, our results, financial position, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Highly Competitive Nature of the Vehicle Rental Industry In addition to local and regional vehicle rental companies, the vehicle rental industry primarily consists of eight major brands, all of which compete intensely for rental customers based on price and service. The Internet has increased brand exposure and gives more details on rental prices to consumers and increases price competition, requiring companies to be highly competitive in pricing in order to attract consumers. In addition to consumer demand, pricing in the industry is significantly impacted by the size of the rental fleets and the supply of vehicles available to consumers in the market. While we have achieved improvements in our pricing as part of our strategic focus on return on assets in addition to the overall fleeting actions taken by the industry to balance supply with demand, we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to realize improved pricing or whether our attempts to do so will further adversely affect transaction days. A significant increase in the supply of rental vehicles available in the market due to fleet actions taken by our competitors, or actions by our competitors to significantly reduce their prices in order to increase market share could negatively affect our pricing and other operating plans in material ways and adversely affect our results and prospects. Risks Relating to Event of Bankruptcy with Respect to the Monolines Our obligations under our asset backed medium term notes are supported by the Monolines, which have faced significant financial challenges and credit downgrades as a result of constrained financial markets. The Monolines have undertaken significant restructuring actions and the financial guaranty industry as a whole continues to face substantial pressures. An event of bankruptcy with respect to any of the Monolines could trigger an amortization of our obligations under the affected medium term notes, which would require a more rapid repayment of those notes, and could also (subject to certain conditions) result in cross-defaults under certain of our other financing agreements. Although conditions in the asset backed credit market have improved in recent months, there is no assurance that those conditions will continue or that we would be able to access the markets in a timely manner in order to refinance the affected notes, and if we are unable to do so, we would need to take immediate action to preserve our operations. These actions could include further extending the holding period of our vehicles to maximize their useful life prior to sale, as well as further reductions of our operations and workforce. These and other actions we may take may not be successful to enable us to meet our obligations under the affected notes and, even if successful, they would likely have an adverse affect on our results and cash flow available to fund ongoing operations. If we curtailed our operations, our ability to compete effectively would also be adversely affected. Exposure to Used Vehicle Market Conditions We retained the used car market value risk on approximately 95% of our vehicles at December 31, 2009 and expect that risk vehicles will account for approximately 90% to 95% of our fleet in 2010. The depreciation costs for these vehicles are highly dependent on used car prices at the time of sale, requiring us to make assumptions regarding the age and mileage of the vehicles at the time of disposal, as well as the general used vehicle auction market. The costs of our risk vehicles may be materially affected by the relative strength of the used car market, particularly the market for one to two year old used cars. A decline in the prices at which we sell risk vehicles could have an adverse impact on our fleet holding costs and results of operations. - 20 - - Throughout 2008, the used car market experienced significant volatility and an overall decline in residual values, including many types of vehicles in our fleet. While the market has experienced improving trends during 2009, the strength and duration of further improvement in 2010 remains uncertain. In the event of renewed pricing pressure in the used car market, our results could be materially and adversely affected. Operating more risk vehicles could also have a negative impact on the vehicle utilization and profitability if we are unable or elect not to sell those vehicles in periods of weaker rental demand. Like-Kind Exchange Program We use a like-kind exchange program for our vehicles where we dispose of our vehicles and acquire replacement vehicles in such a way that we defer the gain on these dispositions for tax purposes. The use of this like-kind exchange program has allowed us to defer a material amount of federal and state income taxes beginning in 2002. In order to obtain the benefit of the deferral of the gains on disposal of our vehicles, we must acquire replacement vehicles within a specified time frame, and must also maintain or increase the overall size of our fleet comparable to the prior tax year. Our ability to defer the gains on the disposition of our vehicles under our like-kind exchange program will be affected by the recent significant downsizing of our fleet. We utilized existing federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards to offset the majority of these gains; however, the taxable gains exceeded the available federal NOL carryforwards and resulted in cash tax payments during 2009 tax year. Projection of the results of the like-kind exchange process is complex, requires numerous assumptions and is not subject to precise estimation. Actual results depend upon future sale and purchase transactions extending up to 180 days after year-end and actual results may differ from current projections. Increased cash tax payments may be incurred in 2010 and beyond, depending on future vehicle purchase and sale transactions. Dependence on Air Travel We get approximately 90% of our rental revenues from airport locations and airport arriving customers. The number of airline passengers has a significant impact on our business. Mergers and acquisitions in the airline industry, airline restructuring through bankruptcy, and continued challenging economic conditions are causing airlines to further reduce flight schedules which could adversely impact the number of airline passengers. The airline industry has also faced considerable challenges in light of current global economic conditions and an overall decline in air travel. In 2009, airline enplanements decreased approximately 5%. A further significant reduction in airline passengers or any event that significantly disrupts air travel could negatively impact our results. Concentration in Leisure Destinations We have a significant presence in key leisure destinations and earn a large portion of our revenue from these markets. Rental revenue from Florida, Hawaii, California and Texas represented approximately 56% of our total rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. The severe decline in consumer spending in recent periods has materially adversely affected leisure travel and can be expected to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. Reductions in leisure travel resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other factors could also have a material adverse impact on our results. Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal variations in customer demand, with the summer vacation period representing the peak season for vehicle rentals. In 2009, the second and third quarters were adversely affected by low levels of consumer confidence and spending. Any event that disrupts rental activity, fleet supply, or industry fleet capacity during these quarters could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our liquidity, our cash flows and/or our results of operations in those periods and for the full year. Customer Surcharges In almost every state, we recover various costs associated with the title and registration of our vehicles and, where permitted, the concession cost imposed by airport authorities or the owners and/or operators of the premises from which our vehicles are rented. Consistent with industry-wide business practices, we separately state these additional surcharges in our rental agreements and invoices and disclose the existence of these surcharges to customers together with an estimated total price, inclusive of these surcharges, in all distribution channels. - 21 - - This standard practice complies with the Federal Trade Commission Act and has been upheld by several courts. However, there are several legislative proposals in certain states that, if enacted, would define which surcharges are permissible and establish calculation formulas that may differ from the manner in which we set our surcharges. Enactment of any of these proposals could restrict our ability to recover all of the surcharges we currently charge and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Laws and Regulations We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and Canada and other jurisdictions in which we operate, and changes in the level of government regulation of our business have the potential to materially alter our business practices and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations, including our profitability. Depending on the jurisdiction, those changes may come about through new legislation, the issuance of new laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations by a court, regulatory body or governmental official. Optional insurance products, including supplemental liability insurance, personal accident insurance and personal effects protection, we offer to renters providing various insurance coverages in our domestic vehicle rental operations are regulated under state laws governing the licensing of such products. Any changes in U.S. or foreign law that change our operating requirements with respect to optional insurance products could increase our costs of compliance or make it uneconomical to offer such products, which would lead to a reduction in revenue. As a result of any changes in these laws or otherwise, if customers decline to purchase supplemental liability insurance products through us, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The U.S. Congress and other legislative and regulatory authorities in the U.S. and internationally have considered, and will likely continue to consider, numerous measures related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Should rules establishing limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or rules imposing fees on entities deemed to be responsible for greenhouse gas emissions become effective, demand for car rental services could be affected, or our vehicle costs and/or other costs could increase and our business could be adversely affected. Fuel Costs Prices for petroleum-based products, including gasoline, have experienced significant volatility in recent periods and affected automotive travel patterns in material ways. A variety of factors, including the current economic environment and geopolitical unrest in oil-producing nations, could cause further price volatility. Limitations in fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, either by directly discouraging customers from renting cars, causing a decline in airline passenger traffic, or increasing our operating costs, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers. Dependence on Third-Party Internet Sales The Internet has had a significant impact on the way travel companies get reservations. For 2009 and 2008, we received 78% and 76% of our non-tour reservations from the Internet, respectively, with 46% and 44%, respectively, coming from our own Internet Web sites, dollar.com and thrifty.com. The remaining portion of non-tour reservations derived from the Internet were provided by third-party sites with two third-party sites each providing approximately 11% of non-tour reservations and the remainder coming from various smaller sites. Future changes in the way travel is sold over the Internet or changes in our relationship with third-party Internet sites could result in reduced reservations from one or more of these sites and less revenue. Liability Insurance Risk We are exposed to claims for personal injury, death and property damage resulting from accidents involving our rental customers and the use of our cars. In 2008 and 2009, we maintained the level of self-insurance of $5.0 million and $7.5 million, respectively, per occurrence for public liability and property damage claims, including third-party bodily injury and property damage, and maintain the level of self-insurance for general and garage liability of $5.0 million. We maintain insurance coverage for liability claims above these self-insurance levels. We self-insure for all losses on supplemental liability insurance policies sold to vehicle rental customers. A significant change in amount and frequency of uninsured liability claims could negatively impact our results. - 22 - - Litigation Relating to the Constitutionality of the Removal of Vicarious Liability The federal Highway Bill removed unlimited vicarious liability for vehicle rental and leasing companies, limiting exposure to state minimum financial responsibility amounts. Before vicarious liability was removed, the owner of a vehicle in certain states would be liable for acts by vehicle drivers even though the vehicle owner was not directly responsible. This federal law supersedes all state laws on vicarious liability for automobile lessors. Since the Highway Bill became law, its constitutionality has been challenged in some state courts, including subsequent appeals. If these provisions of the Highway Bill were overturned, we would be subject to significant exposure to insurance liabilities and higher insurance costs, which would materially impact our results. Environmental Regulations We are subject to numerous environmental regulatory requirements related to the ownership, storage or use of petroleum products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and new and used motor oil; the treatment or discharge of waste waters; and the generation, storage, transportation and off-site treatment or disposal of waste materials. We have made, and expect to continue to make, expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. These expenditures may be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have designed programs to maintain compliance with applicable technical and operational requirements, including leak detection testing of underground storage tanks, and to provide financial assurance for remediation of spills or releases. However, we cannot be certain that our programs will guarantee compliance with all regulations to which we are subject. Environmental legislation and regulations and related administrative policies have changed rapidly in recent years. There is a risk that governmental environmental requirements, or enforcement thereof, may become more stringent in the future and that we may be subject to additional legal proceedings brought by government agencies or private parties for environmental matters. In addition, there may be additional locations of which we are currently unaware at which wastes generated by us may have been released or disposed. In the future, these locations may become the subject of cleanup for which we may be liable, in whole or part. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future environmental liabilities will not be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations or cash flows. Dependence on Outsourcing Arrangements HP handles the majority of our IT services. If HP fails to meet its obligations in all material respects as and when required under our agreement, we may suffer a loss of business functionality and productivity, which would adversely affect our results. Additionally, if there is a disruption in our relationship with HP, we may not be able to secure another IT supplier to adequately meet our IT needs on acceptable terms, which could result in performance issues and a significant increase in costs. Dependence on Communication Networks and Centralized Information Systems We heavily rely on information systems to conduct our business specifically in the areas of reservations, rental transaction processing, fleet management and accounting. We have centralized information systems in disaster resistant facilities maintained by HP in Tulsa, Oklahoma and we rely on communication service providers to link our system with the business locations these systems serve. A failure of a major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of reservations, slow the rental transaction processing, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Our system back-up plans, continuity plans and insurance programs are designed to mitigate such a risk, but not to eliminate it. Our systems contain personal information about our customers. Our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or that of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. - 23 - - Potential for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets A significant decline in operations on both an individual location and overall company basis could indicate that certain long-lived assets are impaired. We will continue to test our long-lived assets for potential impairment and may be required to write down a portion or all of the remaining long-lived assets, comprising property and equipment and software totaling approximately $122.3 million at December 31, 2009. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Table of Contents None. 