Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s operations are subject to a number of risks, which include but are not limited to the following: Our business is subject to seasonality that may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate materially and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The vast majority of Zareba’s business is seasonal, with peak customer demand occurring in the late spring, summer and early autumn months. Therefore, the Company typically experiences peak revenues during the fourth fiscal quarter and lowest sales levels during the second fiscal quarter. Additionally, consumer demand for our products can be affected by weather patterns. Abnormally cold or wet spring or autumn seasons may cause consumers to delay or cancel purchases. However, because the length and severity of the season is difficult to anticipate, we cannot estimate the fluctuation of our sales from quarter to quarter in a fiscal year or the seasonal impact year to year. If our operating results are below financial analysts’ or investors’ expectations due to seasonal factors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our operating results have been inconsistent and we have reported a loss from continuing operations in two of the past four years. The Company has made significant investments in development of new products and market channels over the past few years, coinciding with integrating a significant business acquisition. These initiatives combined with other market factors have adversely impacted our profitability and caused us to report an operating loss in two of the past four years. Continued fluctuation in our operating results could detrimentally affect the Company’s financial condition and may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Changes in the economic climate in our major markets and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could adversely impact our business. Our business is impacted by the current uncertainty in the economic climates of the geographic areas in which we operate, primarily the US and UK markets. A protracted downturn in the economy in one or both of these markets could reduce the amount of funds our end customers have available for purchases of our products. Additionally, our product costs, including materials and transportation costs, are adversely impacted by increased oil and natural gas prices. Increased market prices of oil and natural gas could reduce our profits to the extent that we are not able to fully and timely pass these costs through to our customers. The current uncertainty surrounding the economic climate in the US and internationally and the potential for increased prices for oil and natural gas throughout the world, if realized, may detrimentally impact our business. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions and investments. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • failure to commercialize purchased technology; and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods. 6 Table of Contents Additionally, such acquisitions or investments may result in immediate charges to operating results. Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on a significant customer. In each of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, we had one significant customer that accounted for approximately 26% and 21% of net sales, respectively. We anticipate, but cannot assure, that this customer will continue to be significant in fiscal 2010. The loss of, or a significant decrease in sales to, this customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operation. Requirements for availability of working capital. We depend on our revolving credit facilities for working capital. The lenders have security interests in substantially all of the Company’s assets. Our ability to borrow under the credit facilities depends on maintaining a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable and, to a lesser extent, eligible inventory and complying with financial covenants concerning debt service coverage, interest coverage and maximum capital expenditures. If the Company is unable to generate a sufficient borrowing base and comply with the financial covenants and other requirements of the credit facilities, it will limit or prevent borrowing under the credit facilities and could have a serious adverse effect on the Company. Substantial operations in foreign markets. Zareba has foreign subsidiaries in Canada and the United Kingdom and generated approximately 29% of its net sales from outside North America for fiscal year 2009. The ability to sell products in foreign markets may be affected by changes in economic, political or market conditions in those foreign markets that are outside the Company’s control. Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities. If we are unsuccessful in managing such operations effectively, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Reliance on critical suppliers. We use numerous vendors to supply raw materials, parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products. It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies. As a result, certain key items may be available only from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, suppliers may cease manufacturing certain components that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products. Furthermore, some key items are sourced from foreign suppliers with long lead time requirements for economical shipping. As a result, unanticipated changes in inventory requirements may cause significant delays in receiving parts, or require the Company to incur significant shipping costs to expedite delivery of the items. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not receive sufficient parts to meet our requirements in a timely and cost effective manner. We have experienced significant volatility in our stock price. A variety of factors may cause the price of our stock to be volatile. In recent years, the stock market in general, and the market for shares of many small-capitalized companies, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. During the last two fiscal years the price of our common stock has ranged from $1.08 to $7.99. The price of our stock may be more volatile than other companies due to, among other factors, the unpredictable and seasonal nature of the markets we serve, our significant customer concentration and our relatively low daily stock trading volume. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, including fluctuations related and unrelated to our performance. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating challenges for all publicly-held companies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to meet and maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding the required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting has required, and is expected to increasingly require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. 7 Table of Contents As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Our future growth will depend in part upon our ability to develop and achieve sales of new products and successful entry into new markets. Our growth strategy depends upon the successful development and market introduction of the Company’s automatic gate opener products and security products and niche products into our core DIY business. In addition, in the case of security products, we will be entering new customer markets where we have no previous brand recognition or experience, and with longer sales cycles. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in completing development of any new products. Further, in developing new products, we will incur additional research and development and marketing expenses. Revenues, if any, which we generate from new products, may not be sufficient to recoup the expenses we will incur in the development and introduction of new products. Customers may be slow to accept our new products, if at all, and therefore, we cannot assure you that we will generate significant sales from any new products we develop. If we cannot successfully develop new products and achieve sales of our new products, our financial performance and results of operations will be adversely affected. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect our reported results. Zareba’s subsidiary in the United Kingdom has generated approximately 25% to 29% of our net sales over the past two years. The UK subsidiary’s sales, product costs and operating expenses are transacted primarily in British pound sterling, then translated to US dollars in our consolidated financial reports. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates may cause our reported financial results in US dollars to fluctuate to a greater degree from period to period than as transacted in local currency. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of the foreign subsidiary may also fluctuate from period to period as a result of differences in exchange rates. Our financial results for fiscal year 2010 may be adversely impacted by subsequent events. In August 2009, we announced a proposed transaction to voluntarily terminate the registration of our common stock under the federal securities laws, which proposed has been terminated prior to consummation, and on September 10,2009, the Company announced that its Board of Directors decided to explore strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. We incurred expenses in connection with the proposed deregistration transaction, and we expect to incur additional expenses in connection with the exploration of strategic alternatives. These expenses may adversely impact our financial results for fiscal 2010. 