Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisk FactorsThe following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see “Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.Weather (temperatures, precipitation levels and storms) has a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Weather impacts are described in the following subtopics:•certain retail electricity and natural gas sales,17Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATION•the cost of natural gas supply,•the cost of power supply, and•damage to facilities.Certain retail electricity and natural gas sales volumes vary directly with changes in temperatures. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce our customers’ energy demand and retail operating revenues.The cost of natural gas supply tends to increase with higher demand during periods of cold weather. Increased costs adversely affect cash flows when we purchase natural gas for retail supply at prices above the amount then allowed for recovery in retail rates. We defer differences between actual natural gas supply costs and the amount currently recovered in retail rates and we have generally been allowed to recover substantially all of these differences after regulatory review. However, these deferred costs require cash outflows from the time of natural gas purchases until the costs are later recovered through retail sales. Inter-regional natural gas pipelines and competition for supply can allow demand-driven price volatility in other regions of North America to affect prices in our region, even though there may be less extreme weather conditions in our area.The cost of power supply can be significantly affected by weather. Precipitation (consisting of snowpack, its water content and melting pattern plus rainfall) and other streamflow conditions (such as regional water storage operations) significantly affect hydroelectric generation capability. Variations in hydroelectric generation inversely affect our reliance on market purchases and thermal generation. To the extent that hydroelectric generation is less than normal, significantly more costly power supply resources must be acquired and the ability to realize net benefits from surplus hydroelectric wholesale sales is reduced. Wholesale prices also vary based on wind patterns as wind generation capacity is material in our region but its contribution to supply is inconsistent.The price of power in the wholesale energy markets tends to be higher during periods of high regional demand, such as occurs with temperature extremes. We may need to purchase power in the wholesale market during peak price periods. The price of natural gas as fuel for natural gas-fired electric generation also tends to increase during periods of high demand which are often related to temperature extremes. We may need to purchase natural gas fuel in these periods of high prices to meet electric demands. The cost of power supply during peak usage periods may be higher than the retail sales price or the amount allowed in retail rates by our regulators. To the extent that power supply costs are above the amount allowed currently in retail rates, the difference is partially absorbed by the Company in current expense and it is partially deferred or shared with customers through regulatory mechanisms.The price of power tends to be lower during periods with excess supply, such as the spring when hydroelectric conditions are usually at their maximum and various facilities are required to operate to meet environmental mandates. Oversupply can be exacerbated when intermittent resources such as wind generation are producing output that may be supported by price subsidies. In extreme situations, we may be required to sell excess energy at negative prices.As a result of these combined factors, our net cost of power supply – the difference between our costs of generation and market purchases, reduced by our revenue from wholesale sales – varies significantly because of weather.Damage to facilities may be caused by severe weather, such as snow, ice or wind storms. The cost to implement rapid repair to such facilities can be significant. Overhead electric lines are most susceptible to damage caused by severe weather.Regulators may not grant rates that provide timely or sufficient recovery of our costs or allow a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders.We have historically experienced higher costs for utility operations in each of the last several years with the exception of 2013 which saw a slight decrease from 2012 actual costs. We have also made significant capital investments into utility plant assets. Our ability to recover these costs depends on the amount and timeliness of retail rate changes allowed by regulatory agencies. We expect to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our costs and provide an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return for shareholders. If regulators grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future or if deferred costs are disallowed, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows. In addition, provisions to our approved settlement in the Washington general rate cases in 2012 and our approved settlement to the Idaho general rate cases in 2013, do not prevent us from filing general rate cases in these two jurisdictions in 2014; however, new rates from these general rate case filings would not take effect prior to January 1, 2015.18Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATIONEnergy commodity price changes affect our cash flows and results of operations.Energy commodity prices can be volatile. A combination of factors exposes our operations to commodity price risks. We rely on energy markets and other counterparties for energy supply, surplus and optimization transactions and commodity price hedging. These factors include:•Our obligation to serve our retail customers at rates set through the regulatory process. We cannot change retail rates to reflect current energy prices unless and until we receive regulatory approval.•Customer demand, which is beyond our control because of weather, customer choices, prevailing economic conditions and other factors.•Some of our energy supply cost is fixed by nature of the energy-producing assets or through contractual arrangements. However, a significant portion of our energy resource costs are not fixed.Because we must supply the amount of energy demanded by our customers and we must sell it at fixed rates and only a portion of our energy supply costs are fixed, we are subject to the risk of buying energy at higher prices in wholesale energy markets (and the risk of selling energy at lower prices if we are in a surplus position). Electricity and natural gas in wholesale markets are commodities with historically high price volatility. Changes in wholesale energy prices affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations and the market value of derivative assets and liabilities.When we enter into fixed price energy commodity transactions for future delivery, we are subject to credit terms that may require us to provide collateral to wholesale counterparties related to the difference between current prices and the agreed upon fixed prices. These collateral requirements can place significant demands on our cash flows or borrowing arrangements. Price volatility can cause collateral requirements to change quickly and significantly.Cash flow deferrals related to energy commodities can be significant. We are permitted to collect from customers only amounts approved by regulatory commissions. However, our costs to provide energy service can be much higher or lower than the amounts currently billed to customers. We are permitted to defer most of this difference for review by the regulatory commissions who have discretion as to the extent and timing of future recovery or refund to customers.Power and natural gas costs higher than those recovered in retail rates reduce cash flows. Amounts that are not allowed for deferral or which are not approved to become part of customer rates affect our results of operations.We defer income statement recognition and recovery from customers of certain power and natural gas costs that are higher or lower than what are currently authorized in retail rates by regulators. These power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and potential disallowance by regulators.Despite the opportunity to recover deferred power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows can be negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers.Our energy resource risk management processes can cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations. We engage in active hedging and resource optimization practices to reduce energy cost volatility and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We use physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our energy resource assets or our forecasted net positions for various time horizons. To the extent we have positions that are not hedged, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual loads and resources typically vary from forecasts, sometimes to a significant degree, which require additional transactions or dispatch decisions that impact cash flows. The hedges we enter into are reviewed for prudence by the various regulators and any deferred costs (including those as a result of our hedging transactions) are subject to review for prudence and potential disallowance by regulators.19Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATIONWe rely on regular access to financial markets but we cannot assure favorable or reasonable financing terms will be available when we need them. Access to capital markets is critical to our operations and our capital structure. We have significant capital requirements that we expect to fund, in part, by accessing capital markets. As such, the state of financial markets and credit availability in the global, United States and regional economies impacts our financial condition. We could experience increased borrowing costs or limited access to capital on reasonable terms.We access long-term capital markets to finance capital expenditures, repay maturing long-term debt and obtain additional working capital from time to time. Our ability to access capital on reasonable terms is subject to numerous factors and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain capital on reasonable terms, it may limit or prohibit our ability to finance capital expenditures and repay maturing long-term debt. Our liquidity needs could exceed our short-term credit availability and lead to defaults on various financing arrangements. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.Performance of the financial markets could also result in significant declines in the market values of assets held by our pension plan and/or a significant increase in the pension liability (which impacts the funded status of the plan) and could increase future funding obligations and pension expense.We rely on credit from financial institutions for short-term borrowings. We need adequate levels of credit with financial institutions for short-term liquidity. We have a $400.0 million committed line of credit that is scheduled to expire in February 2017. There is no assurance that we will have access to credit beyond the expiration date. The committed line of credit agreement contains customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock.Ecova has a $125.0 million committed line of credit agreement with various financial institutions that has an expiration date of July 2017. There is no assurance that Ecova will have access to credit beyond the expiration date, and if conditions in financial markets deteriorate, it may affect the access to and cost of reliable credit. The committed line of credit agreement contains customary covenants and default provisions, and based on certain covenant conditions contained in the credit agreement, at December 31, 2013, Ecova could borrow an additional $35.3 million and still be compliant with the covenants. The covenant restrictions are calculated on a rolling twelve month basis, so this additional borrowing capacity could increase or decrease or Ecova could be required to pay down the outstanding debt as future results change. See further discussion of the specific covenants in "Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Ecova Credit Agreement." In the event of default, it would be difficult for Ecova to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations.Downgrades in our credit ratings could impede our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to transact for or hedge energy resources. If we do not maintain our investment grade credit rating with the major credit rating agencies, we could expect increased debt service costs, limitations on our ability to access capital markets or obtain other financing on reasonable terms, and requirements to provide collateral (in the form of cash or letters of credit) to lenders and counterparties. In addition, credit rating downgrades could reduce the number of counterparties willing to do business with us.We are subject to various operational and event risks.Our operations are subject to operational and event risks that include:•blackouts or disruptions to distribution, transmission or transportation systems,•forced outages at generating plants,•fuel cost and availability, including delivery constraints,•explosions, fires, accidents, or mechanical breakdowns that may occur while operating and maintaining our generation, transmission and distribution systems, and•natural disasters that can disrupt energy generation, transmission and distribution and general business operations.Disasters may affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, or the Company's ability to conduct business. As protection against operational and event risks, we maintain business continuity and disaster recovery plans, maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses and we seek to negotiate indemnification arrangements 20Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATIONwith contractors for certain event risks. However, insurance or indemnification agreements may not be adequate to protect us against liability, extra expenses and operating disruptions from all of the operational and event risks described above. In addition, we are subject to the risk that insurers and/or other parties will dispute or be unable to perform on their obligations to us.Ecova participates in a competitive environment and may be unable to attain the level or timeliness of growth we expect. Ecova operates in a highly competitive market, with many competitors vying for the same clients and services. Some current and potential new entrants to the market could have greater access to capital than Ecova, more visible name recognition, or could develop products and services that directly compete with Ecova’s offerings and be more attractive to current or potential Ecova clients. While Ecova strives to maintain client satisfaction standards, competitive pressure could affect client retention and results of operations. If demand for Ecova’s energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions does not develop as we expect, or if certain federal, state, or local government support for energy efficiency programs declines, our revenue could decrease and our results of operations could decline. Ecova also encounters competition from energy efficiency technology advances and may or may not continue to maintain or grow its marketplace presence because of these and other factors.Ecova's operations have been partially assembled through numerous acquisitions and may include other acquisitions in the future as opportunities warrant. There are various uncertainties involved with launching new products and services, expanding to new markets, assimilating acquired operations, achieving revenue growth and operating synergies from acquired operations. Past and future acquisitions, domestically or internationally, if any, could disrupt the business and may or may not be accretive to earnings or provide the expected client offerings, market position, key personnel, or technology, or could introduce an expanded risk profile to Ecova’s operations. Additionally, changes in investment returns or payment and processing activities could affect results of operations. Ecova's growth and its ability to manage costs within its competitive marketplace and emerging business processes could make it more difficult to accurately forecast cash flows and results of operations. As a result, earnings projections may not be achieved or may be more volatile and cash flows may be irregular in this business segment. Cyber attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could disrupt our businesses and have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.In the course of our operations, we rely on interconnected technology systems for operation of our generating plants, electric transmission and distribution systems, natural gas distribution systems, customer billing and customer service, accounting and other administrative processes and compliance with various regulations. Ecova also relies on remote access interconnected technology for the performance of services and client deliverables, and some of Ecova's clients rely upon Ecova for 24/7 energy monitoring services. For Ecova to deliver such services, Ecova relies upon technology from suppliers and third party service providers, which could be subject to interruption.There are various risks associated with technology systems such as hardware or software failure, communications failure, data distortion or destruction, unauthorized access to data, misuse of proprietary or confidential data, unauthorized control through electronic means, programming mistakes and other deliberate or inadvertent human errors. In particular, cyber attacks, terrorism or other malicious acts could damage, destroy or disrupt these systems. Additionally, the facilities and systems of clients, suppliers and third party service providers could be vulnerable to these same risks and, to the extent of interconnection to our technology, may impact us. Any failure, unexpected, or unauthorized unavailability of technology systems could result in a loss of operating revenues, an increase in operating expenses and costs to repair or replace damaged assets. Any of the above could also result in the loss or release of confidential customer information or other proprietary data that could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness, and result in costly litigation and impact on our results of operations. As these potential cyber attacks become more common and sophisticated, we could be required to incur costs to strengthen our systems and respond to emerging concerns.We are currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings, and we are named in multiple lawsuits related to our participation in western energy markets.Through our utility operations and the prior operations of Avista Energy, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints related to energy markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in 2000 and 2001. This allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to:•refund proceedings in California and the Pacific Northwest,•market conduct investigations by the FERC, and•complaints filed by various parties related to alleged misconduct by parties in western power markets.21Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATIONAs a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from us, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information.There have been numerous recent changes in legislation, related administrative rulemaking, and Executive Orders, including periodic audits of compliance with such rules, which may adversely affect our operational and financial performance.We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules and requirements published by government agencies, including but not limited to the FERC, the EPA and state regulators. We are also subject to NERC and WECC reliability standards. The FERC, the NERC and the WECC may perform periodic audits of the Company. Failure to comply with the FERC, the NERC, or the WECC requirements can result in financial penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation.Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Actions or limitations to address concerns over the long-term global and Pacific Northwest climate changes may affect our operations and financial performance.Legislative developments and advocacy at the state, national and international levels concerning climate change and other environmental issues could have significant impacts on our operations. The electric utility industry is one of the largest and most immediate industries to be more heavily regulated in some proposals. For example, various legislative proposals have been made to limit or place further restrictions on byproducts of combustion, including sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, and other greenhouse gases and mercury emissions. Such proposals, if adopted, could restrict the operation and raise the cost of our power generation resources.We expect continuing activity in the future and we are evaluating the extent that potential changes to environmental laws and regulations may:•increase the operating costs of generating plants,•increase the lead time and capital costs for the construction of new generating plants,•require modification of our existing generating plants,•require existing generating plant operations to be curtailed or shut down,•reduce the amount of energy available from our generating plants,•restrict the types of generating plants that can be built or contracted with, and•require construction of specific types of generation plants at higher cost. We have contingent liabilities, including certain matters related to potential environmental liabilities, and cannot predict the outcome of these matters.In the normal course of our business, we have matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the ratemaking process. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. See “Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters.We may be adversely affected by our inability to successfully implement certain technology projects.We are currently undertaking a multi-year technology project to replace our customer information and work management systems, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2014. Our customer information and work management systems are two of our most critical technology systems and are interconnected to many other systems in our company. Implementation of these information systems is complex, expensive and time consuming. If we do not successfully implement the new systems, or if the systems do not operate as intended, it could result in substantial disruptions to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.22Table of ContentsAVISTA CORPORATIONOur planned transaction with AERC may not achieve its intended results.On November 4, 2013, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with AERC, a privately-held company based in Juneau, Alaska. If the transaction is completed, AERC will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Avista Corp. The primary subsidiary of AERC is AEL&P, the sole provider of electric services to approximately 16,000 customers in the City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska. The transaction is expected to close by July 1, 2014, following the approval of the merger transaction by the requisite number of AERC shareholders, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other closing conditions. We expect that the addition of AERC will be slightly dilutive to earnings per share in 2014, and that it will be slightly accretive to earnings per share in 2015. The transaction is expected to result in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill (currently estimated at $48 million). Achieving the anticipated accretive earnings per share contribution from AERC is subject to numerous uncertainties, including market conditions and risks related to AERC's business. This transaction could result in increased costs (including integration costs), decreases in the expected revenues from AERC, the impairment of goodwill or other assets, and diversion of management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsAs of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.