D. Risk factors Polyair's business is subject to a number of broad risks and uncertainties including general economic conditions, competition, product displacement, Canadian and US government policies and regulations regarding environmental, health, transportation and safety. In addition to these broad business risks the Company has risks that are unique to the sectors it operates in. Some of these risks are detailed below. 1. Sufficient capital resources and liquidity -Due to operating losses incurred, primarily in the Pool Division the Company's working capital position has deteriorated as it has used its bank facility to partially finance operating losses, capital expenditures and long term debt repayments. The Company's lenders amended their covenants for the third quarter of 2005 and in the renewal of the credit facility on October 31, 2005 made further covenant amendments in order to accommodate poor profitability of the Pool Division. In addition to the credit available under the operating line the lenders agreed to provide an interim working capital facility until February 28, 2006. The Company's lenders have now further agreed to extend this temporary credit facility to May 15, 2006. In order to provide adequate capital resources for its business plan the Company will need to either complete the sale of certain non- packaging businesses or raise additional capital. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in either of these initiatives and in the event that it is unable to improve its profitability or raise sufficient capital the Company's lenders may limit or withdraw credit available under their loan facility. 2. Absence of profitable operations in recent periods- The Company's Pool Division incurred substantial losses in 2005, a portion of these losses were a result of high commodity prices and the stronger Canadian dollar. In its Packaging Division the Company faced pricing pressure on its existing products and expects that this will continue. If the Company is unable to increase its selling prices to offset material costs, control its manufacturing costs or introduce new products with higher margins , gross margins could continue to remain low and operating results could be affected. 3. Resignation of Company's CEO- Mr. Henry Schnurbach has announced his intention to leave the company on March 31, 2006. The Company has announced the two divisional presidents will assume added responsibility. The Company's business strategy, its ability to maintain its competitive position and to respond to operating and financial challenges will depend on this interim management until such time as a replacement is named. The resignation of Mr. Schnurbach is also an event of default in the company's loan agreement unless a replacement that is reasonably satisfactory to the company's lenders is appointed within 90 days from the date of his departure. 4. Weather - Weather is the principal external factor that affects demand for the Company's Pool Division products. Unseasonably late warming or a wet early summer in 2006 can decrease the length of the pool season and reduce demand for the Company's pool products. 5. Seasonality - The pool products business is highly seasonal and in 2005 approximately 47% of this division's net sales were generated in the March to June period. This division typically generates a substantial portion of its operating income in the third quarter. In these months, any factors that disrupt sales or operations could materially affect the earnings of the Company. 6. Commodity prices and availability - The Company uses various commodity raw materials in conjunction with its manufacturing processes. Generally, the Company acquires such components at market prices and does not use financial instruments to hedge commodity prices. As a result, the Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in commodity prices related to these components. To mitigate the risk of rising input prices, the Company implements periodical price increases. However, such price increases are subject to competitive market pressures. The Company currently has alternate suppliers for its key raw materials. In the event of strong global demand for these materials it is possible that supply in North America could be constrained, as was the case in the fourth quarter of 2005 when the supply of petrochemical based resins were tight as a result of hurricanes affecting manufacturing facilities in the Gulf coast. The Company has strong relationships with its key suppliers and it has occasionally entered into short term supply contracts to ensure continued supply. In order to ensure sufficient quantities of resin to continue production, the Company purchased resin imported from Asia during the period of tight supply. However, sourcing resin from the Far East on an ongoing basis may not be a viable solution to serve the Company's ongoing production needs. 7. Foreign exchange risk - The Company's earnings are negatively impacted by a strengthening Canadian dollar. To reduce its short-term exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, the Company has developed a hedging policy under which up to half of its known foreign exchange requirements may be hedged by way of foreign exchange futures or forward contracts. At October 31, 2005, the Company did not have any derivative instruments used for hedging purposes outstanding. 8. Credit risk - The seasonal nature of the pool products sales requires the Company to establish substantial lines of credit for its customers and to offer extended payment terms. The Company attempts to mitigate its credit risk through the establishment of credit limits and monitoring the creditworthiness of its customers. It also seeks to maintain diversity in its customers and in fiscal 2005 no one customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated sales. 9. Joint venture partner - In the Packaging Division, the Company depends on a joint venture partner for the production of specialized equipment and for new product development. The Company has advanced the partner a total of $250 thousand for the supply of equipment, and $285 thousand to fund development costs that it has incurred in a joint research and development project. Failure of this supplier could result in delays in introducing new technology and put in jeopardy the development of a new product. 10. Expiration of a material trademark licenses - The Company sells certain of its pool equipment product lines using a trademark under license. This license expires in September 2006 and the Company has been developing several alternatives including the licensing of other trademarks as a substitute. The failure to successfully establish the alternative licenses and Company brands could result in reduced pool equipment sales in years subsequent to 2006. 11. Environmental Regulation - The Company's operations are subject to numerous environmental laws, regulations and guidelines adopted by various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Liabilities are recorded when known or considered probable and can be reasonably estimated. The Company provides for environmental liabilities using best estimates. Actual environmental liabilities could differ significantly from these estimates. As part of the acquisition of the Atlantic / Jacuzzi assets in 2003, the Company acquired a property with industrial contamination. This property is subject to the put-call agreement referred to in the Related Party transactions section below. The Company maintains an accrual of $0.3 million for environmental liabilities related to this property, which after giving effect to the put-call agreement it believes adequately represents its exposure. 12. Absence of a liquid trading market for the Company's securities-The Company's stock is closely held and does not trade in large volumes in either of the exchanges its is listed on. The lack of liquidity makes the stock more volatile and the sale of a relatively small amount of shares can adversely affect the share price. 13. Product Claims and insurance may be insufficient to cover all potential liability. - The Company has been named from time to time as a defendant in claims arising from pool-related injuries. In each case which has been resolved, the Company has either prevailed (on the merits or by dismissal) or secured settlement well within insurance coverage limits. The Company believes its products are safe and contain proper use warnings, but avoidance of litigation cannot be assured. 14. Intellectual property infringement. The Company on its existing products and on any new products it launches may be subject to claims that its products infringe or others may infringe on the Company's patents and trademarks. Litigation in this regard can be costly and the Company may expend significant resources in this regard. 