ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Except for the historical information contained herein, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Applicable to Our Business Generally We will need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We will need to raise more money to continue to fund our business. Our capital requirements will depend on several factors, including: • Expenditures and investments to implement our biofuels business strategy, including increased capital expenditures in relation to such strategy, for example, to optimize our demonstration-scale facility, and build our commercial-scale facilities under our agreement with BP; • The level of research and development investment required to maintain our technology leadership position; • Our ability to enter into new agreements with collaborative partners or to extend the terms of our existing collaborative agreements, and the terms of any agreement of this type, including our agreement with BP; • The success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; • Our ability to successfully commercialize products developed independently and the demand for such products; • The timing and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize our products that would result in royalties; • Costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; and • Our possible acquisition or licensing of complementary technologies or acquisition of complementary businesses. We may seek additional funds through a combination of existing and additional corporate partnerships and collaborations, federal, state and local grant funding and loan guarantees, product sales, selling or financing assets, and the sale of equity or debt securities. In addition, we expect to attempt to raise funds in the non-recourse, project-finance capital markets to finance growth of our project portfolio. Such funds may not be available to us or may be available on terms not satisfactory to us. We currently have applications pending for federal, state and local financial incentives such as grants; however, such funds may not be available to us in adequate amounts, if at all. An inability to raise adequate funds to support the growth of our project portfolio will materially adversely affect our business. If we cannot raise more money, we will have to implement one or more of the following remedies: • reduce our capital expenditures; • further scale back our development of new enzyme products; 30 Table of Contents • scale back our efforts to commercialize cellulosic ethanol; • significantly reduce our workforce; • sell some or all of our assets; • seek to license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves; and/or • curtail or cease operations. We have a history of net losses, we expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had a net loss for the year ended of $21.9 million an accumulated deficit of approximately $630.0 million. We expect to continue to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future. Product revenues currently account for the majority of our annual revenues, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenue for 2010 will result from the same sources, as well as from grant revenue. Future revenue from collaborations is uncertain and will depend upon our ability to maintain our current collaborations, including that with BP, enter into new collaborations and to meet research, development, and commercialization objectives under new and existing agreements, and we have been de-emphasizing collaborations that are not core to our strategic market focus. Over the past two years, our product revenue in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues has increased significantly, and our grant revenue in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total revenues has increased significantly during 2009. Our product and grant revenue may not continue to grow in either absolute dollars or as a percentage of total revenues. If product revenue increases, we would expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in support of increased volume. Additionally, as our business model develops, our general and administrative expenses might increase based on broadening our infrastructure to support continued growth in the business. In addition, the amounts we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on: • the progress of our research and development programs for the production of ethanol from various sources of cellulosic biomass; • the cost of building, operating and maintaining research and production facilities; • the number of production facilities that we ultimately attempt to develop; • the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights; • how competing technological and market developments affect our proposed activities; and • the cost of obtaining licenses required to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise. We may not achieve any or all of our goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on an operating basis or maintain revenues at current levels. If we fail to achieve profitability and maintain or increase revenues, the market price of our common stock will likely decrease. Even if we generate significant additional revenue in our specialty enzymes business, we do not expect to achieve overall profitability for the foreseeable future, as we make additional investments to implement our vertical integration strategy within biofuels. In order for us to generate revenue, we must not only retain our existing collaborations and/or attract new ones and achieve milestones under them, but we must also develop products or technologies that we or our partners choose to commercialize and that are commercially successful and from which we can derive revenue through sales or royalties. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 31 Table of Contents We continue to experience losses from operations, and we may not be able to fund our operations and continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph which states that we have incurred recurring losses from operations and, based on our operating plan and existing working capital, this raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have an accumulated deficit of approximately $630.0 million. We have used the proceeds received from sales of our 2007 Notes in April 2007 and 2008 Notes in February 2008 to make enhancements to our pilot facility, to complete construction and commissioning of our demonstration-scale facility in Jennings, Louisiana, to advance development of the site for our first commercial cellulosic ethanol plant, to commercialize our specialty enzymes products, to continue our research and development efforts in both specialty enzymes and biofuels, and for expenses related to the merger with Celunol, all of which have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our operating results until revenues reach levels at which we can fully support our operating and capital expenditures. We have used the net proceeds of our equity offering in October 2009 for general corporate purposes, which include research and development, capital expenditures, working capital, and general and administrative expenses. We will require additional capital to fund our operations, including substantial capital to fund the first commercial cellulosic ethanol plant with BP, which we estimate will cost approximately $300 million to complete. We believe that we will be successful in raising or generating additional cash to fund these requirements through a combination of additional corporate partnerships and collaborations, federal, state and local grant funding, selling and financing assets, incremental product sales, and, if necessary and available, the sale of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any sources of financing on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital from any of these sources, we may need to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures, including our collaboration with BP. If we are not able to reduce or defer our expenditures, secure additional sources of revenue or otherwise secure additional funding, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and we may be forced to restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. We are dependent on our collaborative partners, including BP, and our failure to successfully manage our existing and future collaboration relationships could prevent us from developing and commercializing cellulosic ethanol and/or our specialty enzyme products, and achieving or sustaining profitability. Revenue from our collaborations has decreased both as a proportion of our total revenue and in absolute dollars in recent years. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently fund the development and commercialization of cellulosic ethanol, or all of the potential specialty enzyme products that may result from our technologies, we expect to continue to pursue, and in the near-term derive additional revenue from, strategic alliance and collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize products and technologies that are core to our current market focus, such as our collaboration with BP. We will have limited or no control over the resources that any strategic partner or collaborator may devote to our products and technologies. Any of our present or future strategic partners or collaborators may fail to perform their obligations as expected. These strategic partners or collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. For example, we have recently entered into negotiations with our strategic partner, BP, and have not yet come to acceptable terms on the second phase of our collaboration, which has required two one-month extensions of the negotiating period. Our expectations concerning our biofuels business are dependent upon our continued collaboration with BP, the future terms of which we are continuing to negotiate with BP. There can be no assurance that we will successfully conclude these negotiations in manner that is beneficial to the Company or our biofuels business. Further, our strategic partners or collaborators may not develop technologies or products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of these technologies and products. If any of these events occur, or we fail to enter into or maintain strategic alliance or collaboration agreements, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies and products, grow our business, or generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. 32 Table of Contents Our present or future strategic alliance and collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: • We do not achieve our research and development objectives under our strategic alliance and collaboration agreements; • We are unable to fund our obligations under either of our joint ventures with BP or with any of our other strategic partners or collaborators; • We are unable to obtain funding to build commercial cellulosic ethanol plants; • We develop technologies or products and processes or enter into additional strategic alliances or collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our strategic partners or collaborators; • We disagree with our strategic partners or collaborators as to rights to intellectual property we develop, or their research programs or commercialization activities; • Our strategic partners or collaborators experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our strategic alliances or collaborations; • We are unable to manage multiple simultaneous strategic alliances or collaborations; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become less willing to expend their resources on research and development due to general market conditions or other circumstances beyond our control; • Consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential strategic partners or collaborators; or • We are unable to negotiate additional agreements having terms satisfactory to us. We are dependent on BP under our joint ventures in cellulosic ethanol. We have a strategic partnership with BP to accelerate the development and commercialization of cellulosic ethanol technology. The first phase of our partnership combines a broad technology platform and operational capabilities in an effort to advance the development of a portfolio of low-cost, environmentally-sound cellulosic ethanol production facilities in the United States, and potentially throughout the world. The second phase of our partnership is focused on the commercial deployment of our technologies into a commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol production facility. We are dependent upon BP’s financial and technical contributions under both of these joint ventures in order to realize the benefits of the strategic partnership with BP and continue to operate our biofuels business, as it is currently composed. If BP were not to engage actively in efforts to perform under our joint ventures or were to pursue alternative efforts in cellulosic ethanol, the joint ventures may not be successful and our business could be harmed, including requiring us to shutdown or dispose of our biofuels business. The efforts under the first phase of our partnership have been co-funded by BP under an 18-month initial agreement that was scheduled to expire on January 31, 2010 and was extended through April 1, 2010. We and BP are currently in discussions to extend this partnership beyond its initial 18-month term, which discussions have required to have been extended for two one-month periods because we have been unable to reach acceptable terms. If BP were to discontinue its participation in either of these joint ventures, we would need to continue the efforts on our own or identify and enter into arrangements with one or more other partners, or shutdown or dispose of our biofuels business. If we were to have to fund all of the technology development efforts, we would need to raise additional funds to do so, which would be difficult in the current financing environment. Alternatively, it may be difficult for us to find a different partner that is a good strategic fit and to enter into a new strategic relationship on terms that are favorable to us. If we could not find an alternative way to pursue our development and commercialization efforts in cellulosic ethanol, our business would be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully develop our cellulosic ethanol processes and technology would adversely affect our ability to achieve the benefits under our strategic partnership with BP, and could prevent us from successfully developing and commercializing cellulosic ethanol and achieving or sustaining profitability. A substantial part of our efforts in our biofuels business over the near term will be focused upon the joint development program with BP. We have agreed with BP that for a limited period, we will not use our existing technology in any other technology development program in the field of conversion of biomass to fermentable sugars for the production, or the use in production, of ethanol, with limited exceptions. The limited period may be extended if our joint development program with BP is extended. We are responsible for performance of substantially all of the activities under the joint development program. If we are not successful in achieving the objectives of the joint development program, BP may terminate the joint development program, and we will no longer be entitled to receive any payments from BP for performance of the joint development program, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The technology in the defined field that we develop in the course of the joint development program will be owned by Galaxy, a special purpose entity which is equally owned by BP and us. We will only have access to the technology owned by Galaxy through any license that Galaxy grants to us. In addition, the license to our existing technology that we granted to Galaxy in the defined field will continue in effect on a non-exclusive basis even if the joint development program terminates, unless the termination is caused by BP’s failure to make payments to us when due. If BP terminates the joint development program, we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with another strategic partner or otherwise economically exploiting our technology in the defined field, and the continuing rights of Galaxy to exploit our existing technology and technology developed during the joint development program may adversely affect our ability to do so. If we are unable to perform our obligations under our joint development program with BP, including funding our portion of its costs, we may lose certain voting rights in the management of Galaxy, the special purpose entity formed to exploit the technology developed through our relationship with BP, and the anticipated economic benefits resulting from the joint development program may be delayed or may not occur. We are co-funding our joint development program with BP and have an equal vote with BP in decisions regarding the management of Galaxy, including decisions regarding future funding, the commercial use of the technology package that we anticipate will result from the joint development program and the timing of monetary distributions to the owners of Galaxy. However, if we are unable to fund our portion of the joint development program costs, or are unable to fulfill certain of our other obligations under the joint development program, we may lose our ability to participate in certain aspects of the decision-making process, including decisions about how and when funding occurs. If we are unable to fulfill our funding commitments, BP may chose to fund our portion of the joint development program and to receive its contributions back before we receive any additional distributions from license fees, royalties or other revenue, which could result in the delay of distributions to us or in our receiving no distributions. A delay or failure to receive distributions could have a material adverse impact on our future revenues and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not participate in projects under our commercial joint venture with BP or are unable to fund our portion of projects that we have elected to participate in under the joint venture, our interest in the joint venture may be bought out by BP or diluted, and the anticipated economic benefits to us of the joint venture may be lost or reduced. We are participating in commercial development activities with BP under Highlands Ethanol, LLC (dbaVercipia Biofuels) (“Vercipia”), a joint venture owned equally by BP and us, which will act as the commercial entity for the deployment of cellulosic ethanol technology being developed and proven under our joint development program with BP. This joint venture is intended to progress the development of one of the nation’s first commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities, located in Highlands County, Florida, and to create 34 Table of Contents future opportunities for commercializing cellulosic ethanol technologies. If we do not continue to participate in the development of the Vercipia project by funding our portion of the costs, or if we do participate but are unable to meet our funding obligations with respect to the project, BP may chose to buy out our interest in the joint venture or may dilute our interest in the joint venture. Loss or reduction of our interest in Vercipia could have a material adverse impact on our future revenues and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to co-develop commercial plant production projects with BP under our Vercipia joint venture, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our relationship with BP. There are substantial risks involved in the design, development, and construction of commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol production facilities, which is the focus of our Vercipia joint venture with BP, including, but not limited to, the following risks: • legal and regulatory risk related to land use, permitting, and environmental regulations; • cost overruns; • risk that technology will not scale from a demonstration to commercial facility; • risk that production costs will not be competitive with the price of competing fuels like gasoline or corn-based ethanol; • inability to obtain necessary financing to fund the commercial project; • decrease in support from the government through loss of subsidies, loss of tax credits, or a decrease in federal financial support including the risk that we may not be granted the loan guarantee from the DOE which BP and we recently applied for; and • introduction of next-generation technologies that are superior to our cellulosic ethanol process technology. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our and BP’s ability to complete our first planned commercial facility, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We should be viewed as an early stage company with new and unproven technologies. You must evaluate our business in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company or cellulosic ethanol manufacturing company. Our existing proprietary technologies are new and in the early stage of development for both biofuels and specialty enzymes. We may not be successful in the commercial development of these or any further technologies, products or processes. Successful products and processes require significant development and investment, including testing, to demonstrate their cost- effectiveness prior to regulatory approval and commercialization. To date, we have commercialized 14 of our own products, all in the specialty enzymes area, including our Purifine, Fuelzyme, Veretase, Xylathin, and Luminase enzymes. In addition, four of our collaborative partners, Invitrogen Corporation, Danisco Animal Nutrition, Givaudan Flavors Corporation, and Syngenta Animal Nutrition (formerly known as Zymetrics, Inc.), have incorporated our technologies or inventions into their own commercial products from which we have generated and/or can generate royalties. We have not yet commercialized any products or processes related to our biofuels segment. Our specialty enzyme products and technologies have only recently begun to generate significant revenues. Because of these uncertainties, our discovery process may not result in the identification of product candidates or biofuels production processes that we or our collaborative partners will successfully commercialize. If we are not able to use our technologies to discover new materials, products, or processes with significant commercial potential, or if we are unable to sell our cellulosic ethanol or an integrated solution for the production of cellulosic ethanol, we will continue to have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses for research, development and commercialization efforts and we may be unable to obtain additional funding to fund such efforts. 35 Table of Contents We may not have adequate funds to pay interest on our 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes, or to purchase the 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes on required purchase dates or upon a fundamental change. In April 2007, we completed the sale of $120 million of 2007 Notes, the terms of which include provisions whereby on each of April 1, 2012, April 1, 2017 and April 1, 2022, holders of the 2007 Notes may require us to purchase, for cash, all or a portion of their 2007 Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, that date. In September 2009, pursuant to privately negotiated exchange agreements with Verenium, certain holders of the 2007 Notes exchanged approximately $30.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 2007 Notes for approximately $13.7 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2009 Notes. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $69 million of the 2007 Notes remains outstanding. If a “fundamental change,” which is defined in the indenture related to the 2007 Notes and in the indenture related to the 2009 Notes, occurs, holders of the 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes, as applicable. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest, purchase price or repurchase price of the 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes when due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a “fundamental change.” For example, the holders of the 2008 Notes may require us to redeem the 2008 Notes under such circumstances. Those agreements may also make our repurchase of 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes an event of default under the agreements. If we fail to pay interest on the 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes or to purchase or repurchase the 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes when required, we will be in default under the indenture for the 2007 Notes or the indenture for the 2009 Notes, as applicable, which would also cause an event of default under the 2008 Notes and may also cause an event of default under the terms of other borrowing arrangements that we may enter into from time to time. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including causing us to cease operations altogether. We may not have adequate funds to pay interest or “make-whole” payments on our 2008 Notes, or to purchase the 2008 Notes at required times. In February 2008, we completed a private placement of $71 million of 2008 Notes and warrants to purchase our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $15.2 million of the 2008 Notes remains outstanding. On July 1, 2008, certain terms of all of the outstanding 2008 Notes were modified pursuant to convertible note amendment agreements entered into with certain holders of the 2008 Notes. We are required to pay interest on the 2008 Notes at the rate of 8% per year, and the 2008 Notes also include a “make-whole” provision whereby, upon any holder’s conversion of the 2008 Notes for common stock, we are obligated to pay such holder an amount equal to the interest foregone over the life of the 2008 Notes based on such conversion, discounted back to the date of conversion using the published yield on two-year U.S. Treasury notes as the discount rate. The 2008 Notes provide that we may, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, pay interest or “make-whole” amounts with shares of our common stock at a 5% discount to the applicable stock price at the time of the interest payment or conversion. As of December 31, 2009, our potential maximum remaining “make-whole” obligation assuming conversion of 100% of the 2008 Notes on that date was approximately $3.0 million, which we may be required to settle in cash if we are unable to satisfy the conditions for paying “make-whole” amounts with shares or the noteholders do not otherwise waive these conditions. Were many holders of our 2008 Notes to convert their 2008 Notes, or if a significant amount were converted at approximately the same time, and we were at that time unable to satisfy the conditions for paying “make-whole” amounts in shares and the noteholders did not otherwise waive those conditions, our cash resources at that time could be insufficient to make the required “make-whole” payments. Also, one holder of 2008 Notes has asserted that certain “make- whole” payments made to it in shares should have been paid in cash, and has filed a lawsuit against us asserting a conversion price of $9.36, rather than $25.56 (and with the recent amendment of the 2008 Notes and recent equity financing, $17.89), for a portion of its 2008 Notes for which it has submitted conversion notices. The lawsuit requests additional shares based on such conversions, damages and declaratory relief. We have disputed the assertions made by that noteholder and believe our positions are correct. However, if we were 36 Table of Contents found to have been required to pay such “make-whole” payments in cash, or were found to have otherwise not satisfied our obligations under the 2008 Notes, we could, among other negative consequences, be required to redeem some or all of the 2008 Notes. The holders of the 2008 Notes may also require us to redeem their 2008 Notes in connection with certain “change of control” events, and any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may similarly require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances like those constituting a “change of control” under the terms of the 2008 Notes. For example, the holders of the 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of the 2007 Notes or 2009 Notes, as applicable, in such circumstances. Those agreements may also make our repurchase of 2008 Notes an event of default under the agreements. We may not have sufficient funds to pay any required cash interest or cash “make-whole” payments or repurchase or redemption amounts of the 2008 Notes when due, or any amounts due under other borrowing agreements at the same time such amounts are due under the 2008 Notes or otherwise, and any default under the 2008 Notes or any other borrowing agreements (including the 2007 Notes and 2009 Notes) could cause events of default under our other debt obligations (including the 2009 Notes, 2008 Notes and the 2007 Notes, as applicable). Any of these events could cause the maturity of some or all of our debt obligations (including the 2009 Notes, 2008 Notes and the 2007 Notes, as applicable) to be accelerated, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including causing us to cease operations. Conversion of the 2008 Notes, the 2007 Notes and/or the 2009 Notes, exercise of related warrants, anti-dilution adjustments that may occur under the 2008 Notes and/or the related warrants, and the issuance of shares of common stock in payment of interest or “make-whole” payments under the 2008 Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion or exercise of some or all of the 2007 Notes, 2009 Notes and/or the 2008 Notes and related warrants, and the issuance of shares of common stock in payment of interest or “make-whole” payments under the 2008 Notes, could significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. In April 2008, the conversion price of the 2007 Notes decreased from $97.92 per share to $76.80 per share, based on a re-set provision contained in the 2007 Notes. In February 2009, the conversion price of the 2008 Notes decreased from $49.08 per share to $25.56 per share, based on a re-set provision contained in the 2008 Notes, in July 2009 decreased further to $20.88 per share in connection with the amendment of the 2008 Notes, and in October 2009 decreased further to $17.89 per share in connection with our recent equity financing. The initial conversion price of the 2009 Notes is $9.60 per share and is subject to reduction based on a re-set provision contained in the 2009 Notes. These re-sets and other reductions in the applicable conversion prices for the 2007 Notes, 2008 Notes and 2009 Notes have caused, and will continue to cause, additional shares to be issued upon conversion of these instruments compared to the number of shares initially issuable upon such conversions. The 2008 Notes also contain a version of broad-based weighted average anti-dilution protection, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, which could cause further reductions in the $17.89 conversion price for the 2008 Notes should we engage in subsequent issuances that trigger those provisions. One holder of the 2008 Notes has filed a lawsuit against us asserting a conversion price of $9.36, rather than $25.56 (and with the recent amendment of the 2008 Notes, and recent equity financing, $17.89), for a portion of its 2008 Notes for which it has submitted conversion notices. We have disputed this assertion and believe our position is correct. If we were required to honor those conversion notices or future conversion notices at the lower conversion price, that would cause additional shares to be issued. Additionally, the warrants related to the 2008 Notes and certain warrants held by Syngenta contain weighted average anti-dilution protection that could also cause more shares to become issuable under those warrants if we engage in subsequent issuances that trigger those provisions. In addition, given the low recent values for our stock price, to the extent we satisfy required interest or “make-whole” payments under the 2008 Notes by issuing shares, which we intend to do to the extent permissible under the terms of the 2008 Notes, including to the extent we obtain waivers from the holders to do so, we will be issuing relatively more shares than if our stock price was at a higher level. For example, in connection with the conversion of $45.9 million in aggregate principal amount of 2008 Notes that occurred between January 1, 2009 and March 12, 2010, we issued approximately 1.9 million shares in partial satisfaction of the related 37 Table of Contents “make-whole” obligations. Sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2007 Notes and/or 2008 Notes or exercise of the related warrants, or issuable in payment of interest or “make-whole” payments under the 2008 Notes, have, and we expect that any future sales based on such conversions, exercises or issuances will continue to, adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the 2007 Notes and 2008 Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the 2007 Notes and 2008 Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or the anticipated conversion of the 2007 Notes or 2008 Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The covenants in the 2008 Notes restrict our financial and operational flexibility. We are subject to certain covenants under the 2008 Notes that restrict our financial and operational flexibility. For example, we are restricted from incurring additional indebtedness (other than certain project financing debt, certain unsecured subordinated indebtedness and up to $187 million principal amount of additional indebtedness). The 2008 Notes also include a version of broad-based weighted average anti-dilution protection, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, and the warrants issued in connection with the 2008 Notes also contain weighted-average anti-dilution protection. Any future financing by us involving the issuance of equity, or rights to acquire equity, at a price or prices below the prevailing conversion price of the 2008 Notes at the time of such financing would trigger these provisions in the 2008 Notes and the warrants, causing a further, possibly substantial, reduction in the conversion price for the 2008 Notes or the exercise price of the warrants and additional possible dilution for our shareholders, which would increase the cost and reduce the benefits to us of any such equity financing. As a result of these covenants, our ability to finance our operations through the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of additional equity is limited. The 2008 Notes also contain other covenants that restrict our financial and operational flexibility. One holder of our 2008 Notes (the “Disputing Noteholder”) has filed a lawsuit against us asserting that our recent amendment of the 2008 Notes, which became effective on July 6, 2009, failed to amend such noteholder’s 2008 Note (the “Disputed Note”), and that certain actions we have taken that are permitted under the terms of the 2008 Notes, as recently amended, constitute a breach under the Disputed Note. The Disputing Noteholder did not consent to the recent amendment of our 2008 Notes and has asserted that such amendment did not effectively amend the Disputed Note. We have disputed this assertion and believe that the recent amendment effectively amended all of the 2008 Notes, including the Disputed Note. The 2008 Notes, as recently amended, and the Disputed Note, if not amended, contain different provisions regarding the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, actions that we may take vis-à-vis the 2007 Notes, our use of cash from any sale of specified assets, and with respect to anti-dilution protection. If it is ultimately determined that the recent amendment did not amend the Disputed Note, certain actions that we have taken or that we may take that are permitted under the terms of the 2008 Notes, as recently amended, may be determined to cause a default under the Disputed Note. For example, our exchange in September 2009 of approximately $30.5 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2007 Notes for approximately $13.7 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2009 Notes was permitted under the terms of the 2008 Notes, as recently amended, but would not be permitted under the terms of the 2008 Notes that were in effect prior to the amendment. The Disputing Noteholder has asserted that the exchange of our 2007 Notes for 2009 Notes is not authorized under the Disputed Note and is invalid. Our high level of debt limits our ability to fund general corporate requirements, limits our flexibility in responding to competitive developments, increases our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and may harm our financial condition and results of operations. The face value of our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2009, which includes the 2007 Notes, the 2008 Notes, and the 2009 Notes was approximately $97.9 million, representing approximately 78% of our total capitalization as of such date. 38 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness could have important adverse consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the 2007 Notes, 2008 Notes, and 2009 Notes; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Moreover, if we fail to make any required payments under our debt, or otherwise breach the terms of our debt, all or a substantial portion of our debt could be subject to acceleration. In such a situation, it is unlikely we would be able to repay the accelerated debt, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, up to and including causing us to cease operations. If the recent volatility in the United States and global equity and credit markets and the decline in the general world economy continue for an extended period of time, it may become more difficult to raise money in the public and private markets and harm our financial condition and results of operations. The United States and global equity markets have recently been extremely volatile and unpredictable, reflecting in part a general concern regarding the global economy. This volatility in the market affects not just our stock price, but also the stock prices of our collaborators. In addition, this volatility has also affected the ability of businesses to obtain credit and to raise money in the capital markets. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain credit or raise money in the capital markets, we may not be able to continue to fund our current research and development projects, fund our current products, raise project finance capital for the development of commercial cellulosic ethanol plants, or otherwise continue to maintain or grow our business. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy includes entering into and working on simultaneous projects, frequently across multiple industries, in both our specialty enzymes and biofuels businesses. This strategy places increased demands on our limited human resources and requires us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel, especially with respect to our vertical integration strategy within biofuels. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, growth, and various projects requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees, which we may be unable to do. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner. In addition, we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. 39 Table of Contents If we engage in any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs, may dilute existing stockholders, and may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may consider acquiring businesses, assets, technologies, or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. As of December 31, 2009, we have no commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. If we further pursue such a strategy, we could: • issue additional equity securities which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial additional debt; or • assume additional liabilities. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial, and management resources, if at all. In addition, future acquisitions might negatively impact our business relations with our current and/or prospective collaborative partners and/or customers. Any of these adverse consequences could harm our business. Our business is subject to complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have implemented requirements, standards and regulations, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules, and continue developing additional requirements. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from operating activities to compliance activities. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses or accordingly increase our net loss. Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding financial disclosures and compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosures and governance practices. This further could lead to possible restatements, due to the complex nature of current and future standards and possible misinterpretation or misapplication of such standards. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and as a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the past, we have disclosed material weaknesses with our financial statement close process that we have since remediated. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if 40 Table of Contents we discover other deficiencies or material weaknesses, it may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we continue to have deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, these deficiencies may negatively impact our business and operations. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies or if we lose some of our intellectual property rights due to becoming involved in expensive lawsuits or administrative proceedings. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Although we have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products, as well as anticipated production capabilities and processes, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause great harm to our business. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products, and business. The patent positions of companies whose businesses are based on biotechnology, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. We intend to apply for patents relating to our technologies, processes and products as we deem appropriate. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. We cannot be sure that patents have not been issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate as we would like. Others may develop similar technologies or duplicate technologies developed by us. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to commercialize products in these countries if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents. There also may be claims in published patent applications in some countries that, if granted and valid, may also block our ability to commercialize processes or products in these countries if we are unable to circumvent or license them. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others. For example, in February 2007, an interference proceeding was declared in the United States Patent and Trademark Office between a United States patent assigned to us and a pending United States patent application owned by a third party, with allowable claims directed to our GeneReassembly technology. On February 25, 2008 the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences ruled in favor of the other party and the claims in our issued patent were cancelled. We are not currently a party to any litigation with regard to our patent position. However, the biotechnology industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many biotechnology companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. When and if we become involved in litigation or interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or oppositions or other intellectual property proceedings outside of the United States, to defend our intellectual property rights or as a result of alleged infringement of the rights of others, we might have to spend significant amounts of money. Any intellectual property litigation could potentially force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • stop production of cellulosic ethanol at our production facilities; 41 Table of Contents • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; or • redesign those products, facilities or processes that use any allegedly infringing technology, which may result in significant cost or delay to us, or which could be technically infeasible. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. We cannot assure you that if we are sued on these patents we would prevail. Should any third party have filed, or file in the future, patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for these inventions in the United States. Such a proceeding, like the one described above, could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful, an interference may result in loss of claims. The litigation or proceedings could divert our management’s time and efforts. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management time, and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. Our policy is to execute confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetically engineered products and processes could limit or prevent the use of our products, processes, and technologies and limit our revenue. Some of our anticipated products and processes are genetically engineered or involve the use of genetically engineered products or genetic engineering technologies. If we and/or our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns relating to genetic engineering, our products and processes may not be accepted. Any of the risks discussed below could result in expenses, delays, or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our technologies or inventions. Our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our technologies, products, or processes could be limited by the following factors: • Public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and genetically engineered products and processes, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes; • Public attitudes regarding, and potential changes to laws governing, ownership of genetic material which could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage collaborative partners from supporting, developing, or commercializing our products, processes and technologies; and 42 Table of Contents • Governmental reaction to negative publicity concerning genetically modified organisms, which could result in greater government regulation of genetic research and derivative products, including labeling requirements. The subject of genetically modified organisms has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate in the United States and other countries. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports and exports of genetically altered products. Compliance with regulatory requirements and obtaining required government approvals may be time consuming and costly, and could delay our introduction of products. All phases, especially the field testing, production, and marketing, of our current and potential products and processes are subject to significant federal, state, local, and/or foreign governmental regulation. Regulatory agencies may not allow us to produce and/or market our products in a timely manner or under technically or commercially feasible conditions, or at all, which could harm our business. In the United States, specialty enzyme products for our target markets are regulated based on their use, by either the FDA, the EPA, or, in the case of plants and animals, the USDA. The FDA regulates drugs, food, and feed, as well as food additives, feed additives, and substances generally recognized as safe that are used in the processing of food or feed. While substantially all of our current specialty enzyme projects to date have focused on non-human applications and specialty enzyme products outside of the FDA’s review, in the future we may pursue collaborations for further research and development of drug products for humans that would require FDA approval before they could be marketed in the United States. In addition, any drug product candidates must also be approved by the regulatory agencies of foreign governments before any product can be sold in those countries. Under current FDA policy, our products, or products of our collaborative partners incorporating our technologies or inventions, to the extent that they come within the FDA’s jurisdiction, may be subject to lengthy FDA reviews and unfavorable FDA determinations if they raise safety questions which cannot be satisfactorily answered, if results from pre-clinical or clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if they are deemed to be food additives whose safety cannot be demonstrated. An unfavorable FDA ruling could be difficult to resolve and could prevent a product from being commercialized. Even after investing significant time and expenditures, our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approval for any drug products that incorporate our technologies or inventions. Our collaborators have not submitted an investigational new drug application for any product candidate that incorporates our technologies or inventions, and no drug product candidate developed with our technologies has been approved for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. The EPA regulates biologically derived chemical substances not within the FDA’s jurisdiction. An unfavorable EPA ruling could delay commercialization or require modification of the production process resulting in higher manufacturing costs, thereby making the product uneconomical. In addition, the USDA may prohibit genetically engineered plants from being grown and transported except under an exemption, or under controls so burdensome that commercialization becomes impracticable. Our future products may not be exempted by the USDA. In order to achieve and maintain market acceptance, our biofuels business will need to meet a significant number of environmental and other regulations and standards established by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies. As these regulations and standards evolve, and if new regulations or standards are implemented, we may be required to modify our proposed facilities and processes or develop and support new facilities or processes and this will increase our costs. Any failure to comply, or delays in compliance, with the various existing and evolving industry regulations and standards could prevent or delay our production of ethanol and the provision of related services including plant operation and engineering services in support of anticipated licenses of our technology, which could harm our biofuels business. Market uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect our ability to develop new ethanol production facilities or license our technologies to third parties. Any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our biofuels business, financial condition and operating results. 43 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our contemplated facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. Furthermore, as we operate our business, we may become liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we may arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require expending significant amounts for investigation, cleanup, or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws, or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ethanol production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, applicable to ethanol operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive, and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. In addition, compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, or production efforts. Many competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of biomolecule discovery and optimization from biodiversity is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Technological development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. 44 Table of Contents We face, and will continue to face, intense competition in our specialty enzymes business. There are a number of companies who compete with us in various steps throughout our technology process. For example, Codexis, Maxygen, Inc., Evotec, and Xencor have alternative evolution technologies. Integrated Genomics Inc., Myriad Genetics, Inc., and ArQule, Inc. perform screening, sequencing, and/or bioinformatics services. Novozymes A/S, Genencor International Inc., and Dyadic International are involved in development, overexpression, fermentation, and purification of enzymes. There are also a number of academic institutions involved in various phases of our technology process. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do. These organizations may develop technologies that are superior alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors may be more effective at implementing their technologies for modifying DNA to develop commercial products. The ethanol production and marketing industry is extremely competitive. In addition to cellulosic ethanol producers using different technology platforms, our competitors are grain ethanol producers as well as other providers of alternative and renewable fuels. Significant competitors in the grain ethanol production and marketing industry include Archer Daniels Midland Company, Cargill, Inc., VeraSun Energy Corporation, and Aventine Renewable Energy, Inc. Many companies are engaged in research and development activities in the emerging cellulosic ethanol industry, and companies with announced pilot facility and/or demonstration facility development activities in the cellulosic ethanol space include Abengoa Bioenergy Corp., BlueFire, Genencor, Iogen Corporation, Losonoco, Mascoma, Range Fuels, and Xethanol. Larger industrial companies with announced cellulosic strategies include Archer Daniels Midland, DONG Energy (Elsam), DuPont/POET (formerly known as Broin), Tate & Lyle, and Novozymes. Cellulosic gasification technologies are being pursued by companies including ClearFuels and BRI-Infinium. Some or all of these competitors or other competitors, as well as academic, research and government institutions, are developing or may develop technologies for, and are competing or may compete with us in, the production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass or other feedstocks, such as municipal or construction waste, production of cellulosic ethanol or other fuels employing different steps within the production process, such as acid hydrolysis and/or gasification, and/or the production of other alternative fuels or biofuels, such as biobutanol. Some of our competitors have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior technologies and processes, and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our lack of resources relative to many of our significant competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and prevent us from achieving any market share, sales and/or profitability, and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Current competitors or other companies may develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. The existing approaches of our competitors or new approaches or technology developed by our competitors may be more effective than those developed by us. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our product development programs, harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop our own products. The loss of any key members of our senior management, or business development or scientific staff, or failure to attract or retain other key management, business development or scientific employees, could prevent us from developing and commercializing biofuels and cellulosic ethanol and other new products and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the San Diego and New England areas, or 45 Table of Contents due to competition for, or availability of, personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our biofuels business, particularly in the Jennings, Louisiana area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborative partners in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, including molecular biologists, biochemists, and engineers. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. Several members of our senior management team have not worked together for a significant length of time and they may not be able to work together effectively to develop and implement our business strategies and achieve our business objectives. Management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and others. If our management team is unable to develop successful business strategies, achieve our business objectives, or maintain positive relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or other key constituencies, including our strategic collaborators and partners, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technologies or acquired through strategic or other transactions, especially in our biofuels business. These activities will require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The inability to acquire these services or to develop this expertise could impair the growth, if any, of our business. We may be sued for product liability. We may be held liable if any product or process we develop, or any product which is made or process which is performed with the use of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, or sale. We currently have limited product liability insurance covering claims up to $10 million that may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, if we attempt to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, this additional insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products or processes developed by us or our collaborative partners. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Risks Specific to Our Vertically-Integrated Biofuels Business We may not be successful in the development of individual steps in, or an integrated process for, the production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass at commercial scale in a timely or economic manner or at all. The production of ethanol from cellulosic biomass requires multiple integrated steps, including: • obtaining the cellulosic raw material; • pretreatment of the biomass to make its constituent fibers accessible to enzymes; • treatment with enzymes to produce fermentable sugars; • fermentation by organisms to produce ethanol from the fermentable sugars; • distillation of the ethanol to concentrate and separation of it from other materials; • purification of the ethanol; and • storage and distribution of the ethanol. 46 Table of Contents We are currently focused on the pilot-scale research and development of such processes in our pilot facility in Jennings, Louisiana, as well as the optimization of our demonstration-scale facility located at the same site that is intended to demonstrate the economics of cellulosic ethanol production using our proprietary processes. We have limited experience with sourcing cellulosic feedstocks and distilling ethanol produced from biomass, and we have no experience storing and/or distributing significant volumes of ethanol produced from biomass sources. To date, we have focused the majority of our research and development efforts on producing ethanol from corn stover, sugarcane bagasse, and wood. The technological and logistical challenges associated with each one of these processes are extraordinary, and we may not be able to resolve such difficulties in a timely or cost effective fashion, or at all. Even if we are successful in developing an economical commercial-scale process for converting a particular cellulosic biomass to cellulosic ethanol, we may not be able to adapt such process to other biomass raw materials. While we have a pilot-scale cellulosic ethanol facility and have commissioned our demonstration-scale cellulosic ethanol facility to demonstrate the economics of cellulosic ethanol production using our proprietary processes, we have yet to complete the optimization of our demonstration-scale facility, nor have we begun construction of a large-scale commercial cellulosic ethanol facility. While we have estimated the construction and operating costs for our initial large-scale commercial cellulosic ethanol facilities, these assumptions may prove to be incorrect. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that we can manufacture cellulosic ethanol in an economical manner at large scale. If we fail to commence large-scale production in a timely manner or to develop large-scale manufacturing capacity and experience, or fail to manufacture cellulosic ethanol economically on a commercial scale or in commercial volumes, our commercialization of cellulosic ethanol and our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to implement our planned expansion strategy to build, own and operate commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities, including as a result of our failure to successfully manage our growth, which would prevent us from achieving our goals. Our strategy currently includes the continued development of our pilot-scale facility for process development, optimization of our demonstration-scale plant to validate the economics of our processes at commercial-scale volumes of cellulosic ethanol production, and development and construction of commercial scale plants for the production of large quantities of ethanol for commercial distribution and sale. We plan to grow our business by investing in new facilities and/or acquiring existing facilities, either independently or with potential development partners, as well as pursuing other business opportunities such as the production of other renewable fuels to the extent we deem those opportunities advisable. We believe that there is increasing competition for suitable production sites. We may not find suitable sites for construction of new facilities, suitable acquisition candidates or other suitable expansion opportunities. We must also obtain numerous regulatory approvals and permits in order to construct and operate facilities. These requirements may not be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Federal and state governmental requirements may substantially increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations and products. Rapid growth, resulting from our operation or other involvement with cellulosic ethanol facilities or otherwise, may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. Our ability to effectively manage our growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians and other personnel. We may be unable to do so. We may not find additional appropriate sites for new facilities, or development partners with whom we can implement our growth strategy, and we may not be able to finance, construct, develop or operate these new facilities successfully. We also may be unable to find suitable acquisition candidates. Accordingly, we may fail 47 Table of Contents to implement our planned expansion strategy, including as a result of our failure to successfully manage our growth, and as a result, we may fail to achieve our goals. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant delays or cost overruns related to our cellulosic ethanol plant projects. We have experienced cost overruns for our demonstration-scale facility through the commissioning phase. We may continue to experience significant delays or cost overruns during the optimization phase as a result of a variety of factors, such as shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen design flaws, construction defects, or labor issues, any of which could prevent us from commencing or optimizing operations as expected at our facilities. Our construction costs may also increase to levels that would make a new facility too expensive to complete or, for demonstration and commercial-scale plants, unprofitable to operate. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers may lack the expertise in cellulosic ethanol, which may result in delays or cost overruns. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other clients, including other ethanol companies and, therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our technology, our business may fail to generate sufficient revenue, if any, which would adversely affect our operating results. We expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenue from the commercialization of our proprietary technology for producing fuel-grade cellulosic ethanol by developing, either alone or with partners, cellulosic ethanol production plants and by licensing our proprietary technology. In order to develop a viable cellulosic ethanol business, we will need to: • successfully complete the optimization of our demonstration facility; • successfully design, finance and construct commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities; and • prove that we can operate commercial-scale ethanol facilities at costs that are competitive with grain-based ethanol facilities, other cellulosic ethanol technologies that may be developed and other alternative fuel technologies that may be developed. Currently, there are no commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol production plants in operation in the United States, and we have no previous experience developing, constructing or operating commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol production plants. We are in the optimization phase of our first demonstration-scale cellulosic ethanol facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and operate cellulosic ethanol production plants on a commercial scale, that we will be able to successfully license our technology to third parties, or that any cellulosic ethanol facilities developed by us or our licensees will be profitable. We may not realize the economic return expected from our acquired in-process research and development. We allocated $42.4 million of the purchase price of Celunol on June 20, 2007 to acquired in-process research and development projects. Acquired in-process research and development, or IPR&D, represents the valuation of acquired, to-be-completed research projects. Prior to the merger, Celunol’s ongoing research and development initiatives primarily involved the development of its patented and proprietary biotechnology to enable production of fuel-grade ethanol from cellulosic biomass materials. As of the merger date, pursuant to authoritative guidance, these projects were not determined to have reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future use. Accordingly, the amounts allocated to those projects were expensed in our statements of operations in June 2007, the period in which the merger was consummated. 48 Table of Contents The values of the research projects, namely, our “Generation 1” or “Gen 1” technology, were determined by estimating the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects, and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. These cash flows were estimated by forecasting total revenue expected from these products and then deducting appropriate operating expenses, cash flow adjustments and contributory asset returns to establish a forecast of net cash flows arising from the acquired in-process technology. These cash flows were substantially reduced to take into account the time value of money and the risks associated with the inherent difficulties and uncertainties given the projected stage of development of these projects at closing. Due to the nature of the forecast and the risks associated with the projected growth and profitability of the developmental projects, discount rates of 40% were considered appropriate for valuation of the IPR&D. We believe that these discount rates were commensurate with the projects’ stage of development and the uncertainties in the economic estimates described above. Since our IPR&D represents costs for technology that has not yet reached technological feasibility, we have, and will continue to, require substantial investment in the future development and commercialization of our Gen 1 technology. While we expect to deploy this technology at a commercial scale as early as 2012, we cannot assure you that we will ever be successful in commercializing this technology. If these projects are not successfully developed, our sales and profitability will be adversely affected in future periods. If we are unable to successfully operate our pilot cellulosic ethanol production facility or to successfully optimize and operate our demonstration-scale cellulosic ethanol production facility, we may be unable to proceed with the development of cellulosic facilities on a commercial-scale, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, we have not operated demonstration-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities or built or operated commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities. The development of a portfolio of ethanol production facilities is dependent on the performance of our pilot facility, which we continue to upgrade, as well as our demonstration facility, which is now in the optimization phases. The operation of our pilot facility and the optimization of our demonstration facility might be subject to significant interruption and delay in case of a major accident or damage from severe weather or other natural disasters, or due to supply shortages of necessary materials and services which we, along with other participants in the ethanol industry, have experienced. For these and other reasons, the operation of our pilot facility and the optimization and operation of our demonstration facility may be subject to significant cost overruns from our budgeted amounts. If we are unable to fund these expenditures, our progress at the pilot facility and demonstration facility could be significantly delayed or curtailed until such financing is available. In addition, our demonstration facility, once operational, may not produce ethanol in sufficient quantities or the operating costs for the facility may be significantly higher than we have expected. If we are unable to produce ethanol in the demonstration facility at competitive variable and/or total costs, we may be unable to proceed with the development of commercial-scale facilities. In order to successfully develop commercial-scale facilities, we will need to address siting, construction and other issues, and if we fail to successfully overcome these issues we will not be able to commercialize our technology. Even if we can demonstrate that our technology can be deployed on a commercial-scale to produce cellulosic ethanol on a cost-competitive basis, in order to be successful we must develop a number of commercial-scale projects. In order to successfully develop commercial-scale projects, we must overcome a number of risks and uncertainties including the following: • Sites. In order to develop commercial facilities, we will need to identify and obtain rights to appropriate sites. In evaluating and obtaining sites, we will need to address a number of issues, including the proximity to potential feedstocks and proximity to transportation infrastructure and end-user markets. Competition for suitable cellulosic ethanol production sites may increase as the market evolves. We may not find suitable additional sites for the construction of new facilities. 49 Table of Contents • Joint Venture Partners. In addition to identifying sites for projects we develop on our own and with BP, we may seek to develop commercial facilities through other joint venture partners. We may not find suitable joint venture partners for construction of new facilities. As the market for cellulosic ethanol projects evolves, competition may increase for potential joint venture partners with favorable sites. • Supply of Cellulosic Feedstock. Operation of commercial facilities requires a continuous long-term supply of feedstocks that are generally located in geographic proximity to the facility. We may not be successful in obtaining long-term supply agreements, or our supply of feedstocks could be disrupted by weather, climate, natural disasters, or other factors. In addition, prices and competition for feedstocks could increase, adversely effecting our ability to operate economically or at all. • Off-Take Arrangements. In order to successfully develop a commercial-scale facility, we will need to enter into off-take arrangements for the sale of ethanol to be produced at that facility. If we are unable to enter into appropriate off-take arrangements, we may be unable to obtain project financing for the particular facility. • Construction. We will need to identify and retain a significant number of contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers on satisfactory terms in order to be able to develop and construct multiple commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities. These vendors also receive requests and orders from other companies in the ethanol and other industries and, therefore, we may not be able to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. If we are unable to enter into construction and supply contracts on satisfactory terms, we will not be able to obtain financing for our commercial scale projects. In addition, our construction costs may also increase to levels that would make a new facility too expensive to develop or unprofitable to operate. • Operating Risks. If we are able to build commercial-scale ethanol facilities, our operation of these facilities may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the ethanol industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above. Any delay in development or interruption due to these potential operational risks could result in substantial losses and material adverse effects on our results of operations. We will rely heavily on future strategic partners to support our biofuels business. An important component of our current business plan is to enter into strategic partnerships: • to provide capital, equipment and facilities, including significant capital for the construction of cellulosic ethanol research and production facilities; • to provide expertise in performing certain process development, production and logistical activities; • to provide funding for research and development programs, process development programs and commercialization activities; • to provide access to cellulosic feedstocks; and • to support or provide sales, marketing and distribution services. These arrangements with collaborative partners are, and will continue to be, critical to our success in implementing our vertical integration biofuels strategy and manufacturing and selling cellulosic ethanol profitably. We cannot guarantee that any collaborative relationship(s) will be entered into, or if entered into, will continue or be successful. Our collaborative partners could experience business difficulties which eliminate or 50 Table of Contents impair their ability to effectively perform under our arrangements with them. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner’s performance under any such arrangements would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We cannot control our collaborative partners’ performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners’ activities. The performance of our programs may be adversely affected and programs may be delayed or terminated or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own as a result of these disagreements. Performance issues, program delays or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the issue of which of us owns the technology and other intellectual property that is developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. In order to gain broad acceptance of our technology, we may need to enter into licensing arrangements with third parties. If we fail to successfully identify and enter into licenses with qualified third parties or to successfully manage existing and future licensing relationships, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our technology. We currently have a technology transfer agreement in place with Marubeni Corporation and Tsukishima Kikai Co., Ltd. We also expect that a significant portion of our future revenue could be derived from licensing agreements that we or our Galaxy joint venture with BP will enter into in the future. If we fail to enter into and maintain license agreements, we may not be able to gain broad acceptance for our technology, grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to support our operations. Our future license opportunities could be harmed if: • we do not successfully operate our pilot facility or successfully optimize and operate our demonstration facility; • we are unable to successfully develop commercial-scale facilities; • we develop processes or enter into licenses that conflict with the business objectives of our existing licensees; • we disagree with our licensees as to rights to intellectual property we develop or our licensees’ research programs or commercialization activities; • we are unable to manage multiple licensee relationships; • our licensees become our competitors or enter into agreements with our competitors; • our licensees become less willing to expend their resources on research or development due to general market conditions or other circumstances beyond our control; or • consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential strategic licensees or we are unable to negotiate additional license agreements having terms satisfactory to us. We may not be able to develop manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet demand in an economical manner or at all. If demand for cellulosic ethanol increases beyond the scope of our production facilities, we may incur significant expenses in the expansion and/or construction of production facilities and increases in personnel in 51 Table of Contents order to increase production capacity. To finance the expansion of a commercial-scale production facility is complex and expensive. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary funds to finance the development of production facilities, or that we will be able to develop this infrastructure in a timely or economical manner, or at all. The feedstocks, raw materials and energy necessary to produce ethanol may be unavailable or may increase in price, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. We intend to use various sources of cellulosic biomass, such as sugarcane bagasse, dedicated energy crops, agricultural residues (which may include corn stover), sorghum, switchgrass and wood, to make cellulosic ethanol. However, rising prices for any or all of these feedstocks would produce lower profit margins and, therefore, represent unfavorable market conditions. This is especially true since market conditions generally would not allow us to pass along increased costs to customers, because the price of ethanol is primarily determined by other factors, such as the price of oil and gasoline. Additionally, once we elect to use a particular feedstock in the ethanol production process, it may be technically or economically impractical to change to a different feedstock. At certain levels, feedstock prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in markets where the use of fuel oxygenates is not mandated. Weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions, and general economic, market and regulatory factors may influence the availability, transportation costs and price of biomass feedstocks used in our pilot facility and to be used in our demonstration- and commercial-scale production facilities. There can be no guarantee that feedstock costs to us may not increase over time. Government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply, also impact the price and transportation costs of agricultural products. The significance and relative effects of these factors on the potential cost of feedstocks are difficult to predict. Any increase in the cost of feedstocks will result in increased costs, and negative effects on our operating results. Other inputs to our cellulosic-ethanol production process will also be subject to price variation. These include chemicals, nutrients, enzymes, acid and lime, among others. Increases in the costs of these materials, or our failure to achieve reductions in the use of such materials, could increase our operating costs and have negative effects on our operating results. The gross margin of our anticipated ethanol production business depends principally on the spread between the price for ethanol and our production costs. Any increase in production costs or decrease in the demand or price of ethanol will negatively affect our business. The production of ethanol also requires a significant amount of other raw materials and energy, primarily water, electricity and natural gas. We plan to utilize the lignin remaining after the pretreatment of cellulosic biomass as a source of energy to power our cellulosic ethanol production facilities, however we may not be successful in using lignin as a source of energy and, if so, we may have to supplement our energy use with other sources, including electricity and natural gas. The prices of electricity and supplemental fuels such as natural gas have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Local water, electricity and gas utilities may not be able to reliably supply the water, electricity and supplemental fuels that our facilities will need or may not be able to supply such resources on acceptable terms. In addition, if there is an interruption in the supply of water or energy for any reason, we may be required to halt ethanol production. The high concentration of our efforts towards developing processes for the production of cellulosic ethanol could increase our losses, especially if demand for ethanol declines. If we are successful in producing and marketing cellulosic ethanol, our revenue will be derived primarily from sales of ethanol. Ethanol competes with several other existing products and other alternative products could also be developed for use as fuel additives. An industry shift away from ethanol or the emergence of new competing products may reduce the demand for ethanol. A downturn in the demand for ethanol would significantly and adversely affect any sales and/or profitability. 52 Table of Contents The market price of ethanol is volatile and subject to significant fluctuations, which may cause our profitability from the production of cellulosic ethanol to fluctuate significantly. The market price of ethanol is dependent upon many factors, including the price of gasoline, which is in turn dependent upon the price of petroleum. Petroleum prices are highly volatile and difficult to forecast due to frequent changes in global politics and the world economy. The distribution of petroleum throughout the world is affected by incidents in unstable political environments, such as Iraq, Iran, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Venezuela, the former U.S.S.R. and other countries and regions. The industrialized world depends critically upon oil from these areas, and any disruption or other reduction in oil supply can cause significant fluctuations in the prices of oil and gasoline. We cannot predict the future price of oil or gasoline and may establish unprofitable prices for the sale of ethanol due to significant fluctuations in market prices. In recent years, the prices of gasoline, petroleum and ethanol have all reached historically high levels. If the prices of gasoline and petroleum decline, we believe that the demand for and price of ethanol may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in the market price of ethanol may cause our revenue and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. The production of ethanol has expanded rapidly in recent years. As of the end of 2009, according to RFA, there was more than 13 billion gallons of installed capacity in the US, including more than 1.15 billion gallons of idled capacity, and over 1.4 billion gallons of projects under construction or expansion. We expect existing ethanol plants to expand by increasing production capacity and actual production, particularly in response to the mandates contained in the Renewable Fuel Standard as expanded in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (“RFS2”). Increases in the demand for ethanol may not be commensurate with increasing supplies of ethanol, particularly in light of factors such as the 10% limitation on ethanol blending in gasoline and the rate of expansion of E85 dispensing infrastructure. Thus, increased production of ethanol may lead to lower ethanol prices. Also, the increased production of ethanol could result in increased demand for feedstocks for the production of ethanol. This could result in higher prices for feedstocks and cause higher ethanol production costs and, in the event that we are unable to pass increases in the price of feedstocks on to our customers, will result in lower profits. We cannot predict the future price of ethanol or feedstocks. Any material decline in the price of ethanol, or any material increase in the price of feedstocks, will adversely affect any sales and/or profitability. If ethanol demand decreases, does not increase, or does not increase as much as supply, there may be excess capacity in our industry which would likely cause a decline in ethanol prices, adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Domestic fuel ethanol production has increased steadily from 1.5 billion gallons per year in 1999 to 10.6 billion gallons per year in 2009, according to the Renewable Fuels Association. In addition, there is a significant amount of capacity being added to the fuel ethanol industry, including capacity that may be added as a result of government programs and/or incentives, and capacity added to address anticipated increases in demand. However, demand for ethanol may not increase as quickly as expected, or at all. If the ethanol industry has excess capacity, a fall in prices will likely occur which will have an adverse impact on the viability of our vertical integration strategy within biofuels, as well as our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition if we proceed to market ethanol. Demand for ethanol could be impaired due to a number of factors, including regulatory developments, limits on the blending of ethanol in gasoline, the pace of infrastructure development for high-ethanol fuel blends including E85, and reduced United States gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased gasoline or oil prices. For example, price increases could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage capabilities. A petition filed with the EPA in March 2009 to allow an increase of ethanol blending in gasoline from 10% up to 15% remains pending in early 2010. 53 Table of Contents The United States ethanol industry is highly regulated by federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in such legislation or regulation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or significant reduction in the Federal Excise Tax Credit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive by federal tax incentives. The Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit, or VEETC, program, which is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2010, allows gasoline distributors that blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell regardless of the blend rate. The current federal excise tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon, and is paid at the terminal by refiners and marketers. If the fuel is blended with ethanol, the blender may claim a $0.45 tax credit for each gallon of ethanol used in the mixture. In addition, Congress enacted a $1.01/gallon production tax credit (“PTC”) that is available to cellulosic biofuels producers in the Farm, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 (“FCEA”). This credit, which is inclusive of the VEETC, is set to expire on December 31, 2012. The VEETC may not be renewed prior to its expiration in 2010, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives. In addition, the blenders’ credits, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to United States government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. The elimination or significant reduction in either the VEETC or the PTC could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Waivers of the Renewable Fuels Standard minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline, or the lapse of the increased weight given for the use of cellulosic ethanol for compliance with the Renewable Fuels Standard, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Department of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the Renewable Fuels Standard, or RFS, mandate with respect to one or more states if the administrator determines that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the United States, or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states or with respect to a particular year, or the lapse or alteration of the extra weight cellulosic ethanol is given in complying with the RFS, could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While the Energy Policy Act of 2005 imposes the RFS, it does not mandate the use of ethanol and eliminates the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline in the Reformulated Gasoline Program included in the Clean Air Act. The Reformulated Gasoline, or RFG, program’s oxygenate requirements contained in the Clean Air Act was completely eliminated on May 5, 2006 by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. While the RFA expects that ethanol should account for the largest share of renewable fuels produced and consumed under the RFS, the RFS is not limited to ethanol and also includes biodiesel and any other liquid fuel produced from biomass or biogas. The elimination of the oxygenate requirement for reformulated gasoline in the RFG program included in the Clean Air Act may result in a decline in ethanol consumption in favor of other alternative fuels, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The elimination or alteration of the mandates for ethanol use contained in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, use of renewable fuels, including ethanol, in the United States is mandated to increase from 12.95 billion gallons in 2010 to 36 billion gallons by 2022. The Act 54 Table of Contents also mandates the use of 16 billion gallons per year of cellulosic ethanol by 2022. Elimination or reduction of these mandated targets could adversely affect demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in enacted federal, state or local legislation, or the enaction of new legislation, may adversely impact our business. Federal, state and local legislators may enact legislation, or modify or amend currently enacted legislation, that could adversely affect the industries in which we currently operate. For example, several federal laws encourage the development of the ethanol and/or biofuels industry in the United States. If those laws are repealed or are not renewed, it could adversely impact the ethanol and/or biofuels industries as a whole, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, legislation could be enacted that might not negatively impact our industry as a whole, but could negatively impact that portion of the industry in which we operate or our particular business. For example, in the future we may consider the effect of state or local incentives, such as grants or tax abatements, in formulating our internal projections and budgets and when choosing where to locate and operate commercial-scale plants for the production of cellulosic ethanol. If those incentives should be repealed or no longer become available, the profitability of any commercial-scale plants which are reliant on such incentives could be negatively affected, which in turn would negatively affect our operating results. Certain countries can export ethanol to the United States duty-free, which may undermine the ethanol production industry in the United States. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff and a 2.5% ad valorem tax that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol subsidy available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. There is a special exemption from the tariff for ethanol imported from certain countries in Central America and the Caribbean islands, which is limited to a total of 7.0% of United States production per year (with additional exemptions for ethanol produced from feedstock in the Caribbean region over the 7.0% limit). We do not know the extent to which the volume of imports would increase or the effect on United States prices for ethanol if the tariff is not renewed beyond its current expiration in early 2011. In addition The North America Free Trade Agreement countries, Canada and Mexico, are exempt from duty. Imports from the exempted countries have increased in recent years and are expected to increase further as a result of new plants under development. In particular, the ethanol industry has expressed concern with respect to a new plant under development by Cargill, Inc., one of the largest ethanol producers in the United States, in El Salvador that would take the water out of Brazilian ethanol and then ship the dehydrated ethanol from El Salvador to the United States duty-free. Since production costs for ethanol in Brazil are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the United States, the import of the Brazilian ethanol duty-free through El Salvador, or the import of ethanol duty-free from any country exempted from the tariff, may negatively impact the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell our ethanol. Our competitive position, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances. Even if we are able to execute our business plan and develop commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol production plants and successfully license our proprietary technology, the development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production by others. For example, any technological advances by others in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from corn or other biomass could have an adverse effect on our competitiveness. We cannot predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by our competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. Any advances in technology which require significant capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial position. 55 Table of Contents The termination or loss of our exclusive license from the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an exclusive worldwide license to use, develop and commercially exploit the ethanol production patent estate of the University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc., or UFRFI, which consists of several patents and pending patents and other related proprietary ethanol technology, and any extensions and improvements thereof for the production of ethanol, all of which is referred to herein as the UFRFI technology. The UFRFI license agreement expires on the later of October 2015 or the expiration of the last patent related to the UFRFI licensed technology. Based on the latest to expire of the current granted United States patents, the UFRFI license agreement will extend into 2022. Pending and future patent applications related to the UFRFI licensed technology, if granted, would extend the expiration date of the UFRFI license agreement beyond 2026. Loss of the rights to the UFRFI technology licensed to us, for example, due to our inability to comply with the terms and conditions or otherwise of the UFRFI license agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes to and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our contemplated operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside our control for our contemplated licensing and cellulosic ethanol production operations, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: • the automobile industry’s manufacture of flexible fuel vehicles; • additional rail capacity affecting distribution of ethanol; • additional storage facilities for ethanol; • increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; • expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol; and • growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand for our proprietary technology or the production of cellulosic ethanol, impede our delivery of cellulosic ethanol, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our contemplated business will be dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. New ethanol plants under construction or decreases in the demand for ethanol may result in excess United States production capacity. A number of our competitors are divisions of substantially larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we have. Smaller competitors also pose a threat. Farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry. These smaller competitors operate smaller facilities which do not affect the local price of corn grown in proximity to the facility as much as larger facilities. In addition, many of these smaller competitors are farmer-owned and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a requirement of ownership. A significant portion of production capacity in the ethanol industry consists of smaller-sized facilities. In addition, institutional investors and high net worth individuals could heavily invest in ethanol production facilities and oversupply the demand for ethanol, resulting in lower ethanol price levels that might adversely affect the results of our contemplated cellulosic ethanol production operations and financial position. 56 Table of Contents Risks Specific to Our Specialty Enzymes Business Macroeconomic conditions beyond our control could lead to decreases in demand for our products, reduced profitability or deterioration in the quality of our accounts receivable. Domestic and international economic, political and social conditions are uncertain due to a variety of factors, including • global, regional and national economic downturns; • the availability and cost of credit; • volatility in stock and credit markets; • energy costs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates • the risk of global conflict; • the risk of terrorism and war in a given country or region; and • public health issues. Our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and their desire or ability to make investments in technology. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in a way that reduces demand for our products and disrupts our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts. These global, regional or local conditions also could disrupt commerce in ways that could interrupt our supply chain and our ability to get products to our customers. These conditions may also affect our ability to conduct business as usual. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms that are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in the country in which the customer is located. A deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The financial instability of our customers could adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. We sell our products to and extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. Our Fuelzyme customers are particularly exposed to the challenges facing the corn ethanol industry. While customer credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control the costs of our products. We manufacture a majority of our commercial enzyme products through a manufacturing facility in Mexico City owned by Fermic S.A., or Fermic. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business outside the U.S., particularly Mexico, including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, and changes in local government administration and governmental policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects 57 Table of Contents of health risks like the recent outbreak of swine flu. There can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to access the capacity to manufacture products in sufficient quantity, we may not be able to commercialize our products or generate significant sales. We have only limited experience in enzyme manufacturing, and we do not have our own internal capacity to manufacture specialty enzyme products on a commercial scale. We expect to be dependent to a significant extent on third parties for commercial scale manufacturing of our specialty enzyme products. We have arrangements with third parties that have the required manufacturing equipment and available capacity to manufacture our commercial enzymes. While we have our own pilot development facility, we continue to depend on third parties for large-scale commercial manufacturing. Additionally, one of our third party manufacturers is located in a foreign country, and is our sole-source supplier for most of our commercial enzyme products. Any difficulties or interruptions of service with our third party manufacturers or our own pilot manufacturing facility could disrupt our research and development efforts, delay our commercialization of specialty enzyme products, and harm our relationships with our specialty enzyme strategic partners, collaborators, or customers. We have experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to our manufacturing processes for Phyzyme and Fuelzyme, which negatively impacted our product gross margins. We have in the past experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to contamination and manufacturing issues for Phyzyme and Fuelzyme. While we believe we have adequately resolved our contamination issues and have recovered a substantial portion of such losses from our third-party manufacturer Fermic, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur in the future or that any amount of future losses will be reimbursed by Fermic. If such contamination issues continue in future periods, or we are not able to otherwise improve our manufacturing yields, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If Genencor assumes all or a part of our Phyzyme manufacturing, our gross product revenues will be adversely impacted and our product gross margins could decline. Due to capacity constraints at Fermic in 2008, we were not able to supply adequate quantities of Phyzyme necessary to meet the increased demand from Danisco. As a result, we contracted with Genencor, a subsidiary of Danisco, to serve as a second-source manufacturer for Phyzyme. Pursuant to current accounting rules, revenue from Phyzyme that is supplied to us by Genencor is recognized in an amount equal to the royalty on operating profit received from Danisco, as compared to the full value of the manufacturing costs plus the royalty on operating profit we currently recognize for Phyzyme we manufacture at Fermic. While this revenue recognition treatment has little or no negative impact on the gross margin we recognize for every sale of Phyzyme, it does have a negative impact on the gross product revenue we recognize for Phyzyme as the volume of Phyzyme manufactured by Genencor increases. In addition, our supply agreement with Danisco for Phyzyme contains provisions which allow Danisco, with six months advance notice, to assume manufacturing rights of Phyzyme. If Danisco were to exercise this right, we would also have the right to reduce our capacity commitment to Fermic; nevertheless, we may still experience significant excess capacity at Fermic as a result. If we were unable to absorb this excess capacity with other products, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely effected. We have only limited experience in independently developing, manufacturing, marketing, selling, and distributing commercial specialty enzyme products. We currently have only limited resources and capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, or distribute specialty enzyme products on a commercial scale. We will determine which specialty enzyme products to pursue 58 Table of Contents independently based on various criteria, including: investment required, estimated time to market, regulatory hurdles, infrastructure requirements, and industry-specific expertise necessary for successful commercialization. At any time, we may modify our strategy and pursue collaborations for the development and commercialization of some specialty enzyme products that we had intended to pursue independently. We may pursue specialty enzyme products that ultimately require more resources than we anticipate or which may be technically unsuccessful. In order for us to commercialize more specialty enzyme products directly, we would need to establish or obtain through outsourcing arrangements additional capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, and distribute such products. If we are unable to successfully commercialize specialty enzyme products resulting from our internal product development efforts, we will continue to incur losses in our specialty enzymes business, as well as in our business as a whole. Even if we successfully develop a commercial specialty enzyme product, we may not generate significant sales and achieve profitability in our specialty enzymes business, or in our business as a whole. We have relied, and will continue to rely, heavily on strategic partners to support our specialty enzymes business. Historically, we have relied upon a number of collaborations, including those with Syngenta, Danisco, Bunge, Cargill, and BASF, to enhance and support our development and commercialization efforts for our specialty enzymes. An important component of our business plan is to enter into strategic partnerships: • to provide capital, equipment and facilities, including significant capital to develop and expand our enzyme manufacturing capabilities; • to provide funding for research and development programs, process development programs and commercialization activities for our specialty enzyme products; and • to support or provide sales, marketing and distribution services for our specialty enzyme products. These arrangements with collaborative partners are, and will continue to be, critical to the success of our specialty enzymes business. We cannot guarantee that any collaborative relationship(s) will be entered into, or if entered into, will continue or be successful. Our collaborative partners could experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our arrangements with them. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner’s performance under any such arrangements would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We cannot control our collaborative partners’ performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners’ activities. The performance of our programs may be adversely affected and programs may be delayed or terminated or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own as a result of these disagreements. Performance issues, program delays or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the issue of which of us owns the technology and other intellectual property that is developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. 59 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law and have adopted a shareholder rights plan that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, we adopted a share purchase rights plan that has anti-takeover effects. The rights under the plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our board, since the rights may be amended to permit such an acquisition or may be redeemed by us. These provisions in our charter documents, under Delaware law, and in our rights plan could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because of these provisions, our common stockholders might not be able to receive a premium on their investment. We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • termination of strategic alliances and collaborations; • the success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; • the ability and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize, market, and sell royalty-bearing products or processes on expected timelines; • our ability to enter into new agreements with potential strategic partners and collaborators or to extend the terms of our existing strategic alliance agreements and collaborations, and the terms of any agreement of this type; • our need to continuously recruit and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to successfully satisfy all pertinent regulatory requirements; • our ability to successfully commercialize products or processes developed independently and the demand and prices for such products or processes; • the cost and timing of optimization and operation of our cellulosic ethanol demonstration facility; • the extent, cost and timing of any new projects for the development of commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol facilities; • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our, and our collaborative partners’, research and development expenditures; and • increased expenses related to the implementation of our vertical integration strategy within biofuels. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would probably decline. 60 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be particularly volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Between January 1, 2006 and November 6, 2009, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $2.76 to a high of $138.95. Since the completion of our merger with Celunol on June 20, 2007, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from $2.76 to $81.96. The closing market price of our common stock on December 31, 2009 was $4.50, and the closing price of our common stock on March 12, 2010 was $5.95. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key collaboration agreements and licensing agreements; • interruption or delay in the optimization and operation of our cellulosic ethanol demonstration facility; • risks and uncertainties related to siting, permitting, construction, materials and equipment procurement, and other issues related to development of commercial-scale facilities; • any inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms to fund our operations and pursue our business plan; • reductions in the price of gasoline or increases in the prices for biomass feedstocks; • future royalties from product sales, if any, by our collaborative partners; • future royalties and fees for use of our proprietary processes, if any, by our licensees; • the initiation of material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights or otherwise; • our results of operations and financial condition, including our cash reserves and cost level; • general and industry-specific economic and regulatory conditions that may affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize biofuels and cellulosic ethanol and other products; • significant accidents, damage from severe weather or other natural disasters affecting our cellulosic ethanol pilot and demonstration facilities; • developments involving our 2009 Notes, 2008 Notes and 2007 Notes; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or alternative fuel sources or other products by our competitors; • decreases in the market for ethanol, and cellulosic ethanol; • sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our large shareholders; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • future sales of our common stock or other capital-raising activities; • issuance of shares by us, and sales in the public market of the shares issued, upon conversion of the 2009 Notes, 2008 Notes, 2007 Notes or exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the extent to which we issue shares versus pay cash in satisfaction of any “make-whole” obligation arising upon conversion of some or all of the 2008 Notes and 2009 Notes or to pay interest due under the 2008 Notes and 2009 Notes; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general are currently experiencing substantial volatility related to general economic conditions and may continue to experience volatility for some time. The stock markets have 61 Table of Contents experienced in the past substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. Our officers, directors, and stockholders with at least 10% of our stock together controlled approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. If these officers, directors, and principal stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together, could heavily contribute to our entering into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of March 12, 2010, we had 12,098,322 shares of common stock outstanding. Furthermore, the anti-dilution provisions of our 2008 Notes and of the warrants issued in connection therewith would be triggered by any issuance of shares of our common stock at a price below the conversion price or exercise price, as applicable, in effect at the time of such issuance, resulting in an increase in the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion or exercise, as applicable, of the 2008 Notes and the warrants issued in connection therewith, causing a further dilutive effect to other stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 