ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Except for the historical information contained herein, this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and 17 Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Risks Applicable to Our Business Generally We have a history of net losses, we expect to continue to incur net losses, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have typically incurred net losses from our continuing operations since our inception. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $582 million. We expect to continue to incur additional losses in the near term, and if we are unable to successfully execute on our business plan, for the foreseeable future. Product revenues currently account for the majority of our annual revenues, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenue for 2013 will continue to result from the same sources. Future revenue from collaborations from which we expect to develop and market future products is uncertain and will depend upon our ability to maintain our current collaborations, enter into new collaborations and to meet research and development, and commercialization objectives under new and existing agreements. Our product revenue may not continue to grow in either absolute dollars or as a percentage of total revenues. If product revenue increases, we would expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in support of increased volume, which could negatively affect our operating margins and profitability. We also plan to invest heavily in development efforts to commercialize our Product Pipeline, and the amounts we spend may impact our ability to become profitable. We may not achieve any or all of our goals, and therefore, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable on an operating basis or maintain revenues at current levels or grow revenues. If we fail to achieve profitability and maintain or increase revenues, the market price of our common stock will likely decrease. If we require additional capital to fund our operations, we may need to enter into financing arrangements with unfavorable terms or which could adversely affect the ownership interest and rights of our common stockholders as compared to our other stockholders. If such financing is not available, we may need to cease operations. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources, cash generated from product revenue and collaborative partners will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to increase or maintain our product revenue, improve or maintain product gross margins, and drive market acceptance of our Product Pipeline candidates could be slower than anticipated, or we may use a significant amount of our cash to successfully develop and market our products. Our capital requirements depend on several factors, including: • the level of research and development investment for the progression of our Product Pipeline; • our continued investment in manufacturing facilities and/or capabilities necessary to improve manufacturing yields; or meet anticipated demand for our products. • uncertainties surrounding our ability to adequately maintain and grow our revenue base for our current products due to unfavorable market conditions in the corn ethanol industry; slower-than-anticipated customer adoption of our products for hydraulic fracturing; and/or the impact of the launch of next-generation-products by competitors in animal health and nutrition; • maintaining or increasing our sales and marketing infrastructure to support our current products and the commercial launch of our Product Pipeline candidates; 18 • our ability to enter into new agreements with collaborative partners or to extend the terms of our existing collaborative agreements, and the terms of any agreement of this type; • our ability to successfully commercialize products and the demand for such products; and • the timing and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize our products. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution or such equity securities may provide for rights or preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, such debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to holders of common stock and the terms of such debt could impose restrictions on our operations. If we are unable to access the capacity to manufacture products in development in sufficient quantity, we may not be able to commercialize our products or generate significant sales. We have only limited experience in enzyme manufacturing, and we do not have our own internal capacity to manufacture enzyme products on a commercial scale. We expect to be dependent to a significant extent on third parties for commercial scale manufacturing of our enzyme products. We have arrangements with third parties that have the required manufacturing equipment and available capacity to manufacture our commercial and development enzymes. Additionally, one of our third party manufacturers, Fermic, is located in Mexico, and is our sole-source supplier for most of our commercial enzyme products. Any difficulties or interruptions of service with our third party manufacturers such as Fermic could delay commercialization of our enzyme products and harm our relationships with our enzyme strategic partners, collaborators, or customers. We have a fixed manufacturing capacity commitment to our third party manufacturer, Fermic, and may not be able to adequately manage capacity needs with demand. Our inability to do so could result in idle capacity, which could harm our business. We rely on our primary third party manufacturer, Fermic, to manufacture our products and have committed to a fixed amount of manufacturing capacity. Because our manufacturing costs are largely fixed, if we are unable to maintain or increase demand for our current and future products, we may experience periods of idle capacity, during which we would pay our fixed rent costs to Fermic whether or not we utilize the fermentation capacity under contract. We are also obligated to pay our fixed rent costs to Fermic during the implementation of improvements to our manufacturing processes, which may require us to incur downtime to one or more of our fermentation vessels for an extended period of time. For example, during the third quarter of 2012, we incurred idle capacity charges related to downtime for in-process upgrades to one of our fermentation vessels, and we expect to incur similar down time in connection with similar upgrades to our two additional fermentation vessels in 2013. In any case, idle capacity has had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our product gross profit, our results of operations and financial condition. If demand for our products increases we may not be able to supply our customers with sufficient quantities of product, which could harm our business. We have in the past, and may experience in the future, manufacturing constraints, inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to product quality and other manufacturing issues, which have prevented us from maintaining adequate supply of inventory to meet our customers’ demands. We may also experience further manufacturing constraints in connection with process improvements or manufacturing expansion and projects we, together with Fermic, have implemented and will continue to implement. For example, during the entire third quarter of 2012, we incurred constrained capacity related to downtime for in-process upgrades to one of our fermentation vessels. If such projects, which are intended to increase manufacturing yields and efficiency, are delayed, or do not adequately resolve manufacturing limitations, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our enzyme products, and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 19 Failure to manufacture sufficient quantities of Purifine® PLC and Veretase® alpha-amylase products or control costs of doing so, under our contract manufacturing relationship with DSM, will adversely affect our results of operations. In conjunction with our agreement with DSM for the purchase of our oilseed processing business, we concurrently entered into a supply agreement obligating us to manufacture minimum quantities of Purifine and Veretase® alpha-amylase products for DSM. Following the transaction with DSM, we experienced increases in costs in connection with the manufacture of the Purifine product. We are obligated to share in such cost overruns or increases, in whole or in part, in connection with our manufacturing for DSM, and we may continue to experience higher costs in connection with the manufacture of the Purifine® PLC product in future periods. In addition, to the extent that we are unable to meet quality specifications associated with manufacturing these products, we may be obligated to incur the additional costs for replacement batches to DSM. We have experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields related to our manufacturing processes in the past for our enzyme products, and may continue to experience such losses, which could negatively impact our product gross margins. We have experienced inventory losses and decreased manufacturing yields of our enzyme products due to shelf-life expiration, quality, and other manufacturing-related issues. While we continue to address inventory quality and manufacturing issues and, in the past, have recovered a substantial portion of such losses from our third party manufacturer, Fermic, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur in the future or that any amount of future losses will be reimbursed by Fermic. If such issues continue in future periods, or we are not able to otherwise improve our manufacturing yields, our sales would suffer and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we increase contract manufacturing of our Phyzyme® XP phytase at Genencor, a subsidiary of DuPont, and decrease its manufacture at Fermic, our gross product revenues will be adversely impacted. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 65% of Phyzyme® XP phytase production was manufactured by Genencor, a subsidiary of DuPont. Due to capacity constraints at Fermic in 2008, we were not able to supply adequate quantities of Phyzyme® XP phytase necessary to meet the increased production demand from DuPont. As a result, we contracted with Genencor to serve as a second-source manufacturer for Phyzyme® XP phytase. Pursuant to current accounting rules, revenue from Phyzyme® XP phytase that is supplied to us by Genencor is recognized in an amount equal to the royalty calculated as a percentage of operating profit received from DuPont, as compared to the full value of the manufacturing costs plus the royalty we currently recognize for Phyzyme® XP phytase we manufacture at Fermic. While this revenue recognition treatment has little or no negative impact on the gross margin we recognize for every sale of Phyzyme® XP phytase, it does have a negative impact on the gross product revenue we recognize for Phyzyme® XP phytase as the volume of Phyzyme® XP phytase manufactured by Genencor increases. If DuPont exercises its right to assume manufacturing rights of Phyzyme® XP phytase, we may experience significant excess capacity at Fermic which could adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, our supply agreement with DuPont for Phyzyme® XP phytase contains provisions which allow DuPont, with six months’ advance notice, to assume manufacturing rights of Phyzyme® XP phytase. If DuPont were to exercise this right, we would also have the right to reduce our capacity commitment to Fermic; nevertheless, we may still experience significant excess capacity at Fermic as a result. If we were unable to absorb this excess capacity with other products, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 20 We continue to rely heavily on product revenues from Phyzyme® XP phytase. Any unexpected decline in demand for this product will harm our operating results. Revenues from Phyzyme® XP phytase represented approximately 63% of total product and contract manufacturing revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. We expect that revenue from Phyzyme® XP phytase will decrease due largely to the following factors: • Introduction of competing next-generation phytase enzymes, including a competing next-generation phytase enzyme by DuPont, which could adversely impact end user sales of Phyzyme® XP phytase; and • A shift in manufacturing of Phyzyme® XP phytase to Genencor, and our related method of revenue recognition for Phyzyme® XP phytase product sales. We recognize revenue from Phyzyme® XP phytase manufactured at Fermic equal to the full value of the manufacturing costs plus royalties, as compared to revenue associated with product manufactured by Genencor which is recognized on a net basis equal to the royalty received from DuPont. While this revenue recognition treatment has little or no negative impact on the gross margin in absolute dollars we recognize for every sale of Phyzyme® XP phytase, it does have a negative impact on the gross product revenue we recognize for Phyzyme® XP phytase as the volume of Phyzyme® XP phytase manufactured by Genencor increases. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 65% of PhyzymeXP® phytase production was manufactured by Genencor. Significant fluctuations in commodity availability and price, or a change in the use of production facilities that use our enzymes, could have a negative effect on demand for our enzymes. Our product lines may be directly or indirectly dependent upon the pricing of commodities and, therefore, may be subject to changes in availability and price of commodities such as corn, wheat and ethanol in our grain processing product line; and poultry and phosphorous in our animal health and nutrition product line. Competitive conditions, government regulations, natural disasters and other events could limit the production of our customers’ products that use our enzymes. As a result, the price and availability of the raw materials used, or the end products which our enzymes are used to produce, may fluctuate substantially, and could significantly impact both the demand for, and average sales price of, our enzymes. Such fluctuations may result in reduced volumes of our enzymes being used, or may result in our enzymes not being used at all. Any change in the use of production facilities that currently use our enzymes to manufacture products could significantly impact the demand for, and average sales price of, our enzymes. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Because a significant portion of our revenue comes from a few large customers, any decrease in sales to these customers could harm our operating results. Our revenue and profitability are highly dependent on our relationships with a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 75% of total revenue. We are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration. The loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers would adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be successful maintaining or increasing demand for our existing and future products for the grain processing industry. Demand for our grain processing product line has been impacted by adverse business conditions in the corn ethanol industry due largely to the following factors: • Reduced demand for gasoline, and therefore for ethanol, have depressed ethanol prices; 21 • Depressed ethanol prices combined with continued high corn prices have resulted in low to negative margins for corn ethanol producers, and they have responded by reducing operating rates or idling operations until margins improve; and • Reducing operating rates or idling operations combined with higher wheat prices in Europe impacting our Xylathin™ xylanase product sales have resulted in the overall decrease, partially offset by higher U.S. sales. In addition, the market for our Fuelzyme® alpha-amylase product is highly competitive, and dominated by two major suppliers with more than a 75% market share who have greater resources and experience than we do in serving this market. These factors combined with rising corn prices and the impact of rising gasoline prices on consumer demand, suggest the sustained challenging industry conditions have continued to cause production rate cuts and plant suspensions or closures, which have negatively impacted our business. As a result of these factors, we have experienced increased competitive pressure and delays or extensions of trials which consequently has affected the timing of new customer adoptions. While we have gained new customers in 2012, total ethanol production volume from our customers has declined compared to 2011, which in turn has decreased enzyme usage and demand for our products. We expect that current industry conditions could continue to impact our revenue growth for our grain processing product line into 2013. We may not be successful marketing and selling our existing and future products into the oilfield services industry. To date, we have generated only minimal sales from our Pyrolase® cellulase product and we have only recently begun to actively market our Pyrolase® HT cellulase and EradicakeTM alpha-amylase enzyme products into the oilfield services industry. These products, as well as future products under development, are targeted for use in hydraulic fracturing. This is a volatile industry, highly impacted by environmental regulation, subject to variations in demand and prices for oil and natural gas, and highly dependent upon capital spending to support drilling activity. In addition, enzyme usage has not been widely adopted throughout the industry. If we are unsuccessful in increasing demand for our products that serve the hydraulic fracturing industry due to these or other factors, the growth of our business and our future profitability will be negatively impacted. The existing global economic and financial market environment has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The existing global economic and financial market environment has caused, among other things, lower consumer and business spending, lower consumer net worth, a general tightening in the credit markets, and lower levels of liquidity, all of which has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers have been severely affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential customers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet consumer demand or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations, difficulties if we overstrained our resources, and our long-term business approach that necessitates we remain in position to respond when market conditions improve. The timing and nature of a sustained recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will significantly improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. 22 The financial instability of our customers, particularly in the corn ethanol market, has caused and may continue to cause an adverse affect on our business and may result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. We sell our products to a limited number of customers, and we are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration in the future. Therefore, the loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers has and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. For example, if the general market conditions for corn ethanol were to continue to deteriorate, including as a result of over supply and reduced demand, our Fuelzyme® alpha-amylase customers will continue to be adversely affected, which could continue to cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders, which would adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. Additionally, we extend credit to our customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. While customer credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international enzyme manufacturing operations are subject to a number of risks that could adversely affect our business. We manufacture a majority of our commercial enzyme products through a manufacturing facility in Mexico City owned by Fermic. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business in countries outside the United States, particularly in Mexico, including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, earthquakes and other acts of nature, political instability, organized criminal activity and violence, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, government regulations, and changes in local government administration and government policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects of health risks. There can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control costs of our products, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have limited experience and resources in independently developing, manufacturing, marketing, selling, and distributing commercial enzyme products. We currently have only limited resources and capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, or distribute enzyme products on a commercial scale. We will determine which enzyme products to pursue independently based on various criteria, including: investment required, estimated time to market, regulatory hurdles, infrastructure requirements, and industry-specific expertise necessary for successful commercialization. At any time, we may modify our strategy and pursue collaborations for the development and commercialization of some enzyme products that we had intended to pursue independently. We may pursue enzyme products that ultimately require more resources than we anticipate or which may be technically unsuccessful. In order for us to commercialize more enzyme products directly, we would need to establish or obtain through outsourcing arrangements additional capability to develop, manufacture, market, sell, and distribute such products. If we are unable to successfully commercialize enzyme products resulting from our internal product development efforts, we will continue to incur losses. Even if we successfully develop a commercial enzyme product, we may not generate significant sales and achieve profitability in our business. We are dependent on our collaborative partners, and our failure to successfully manage our existing and future collaboration relationships could prevent us from developing and commercializing our enzyme products, and achieving or sustaining profitability. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently fund the development and commercialization of all the potential enzyme products that may result from our technologies, we expect to 23 continue to pursue, and in the near-term derive additional revenue from, strategic alliance and collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize products and technologies that are core to our current market focus. We will have limited or no control over the resources that any strategic partner or collaborator may devote to our products and technologies. Any of our present or future strategic partners or collaborators may fail to perform their obligations as expected. These strategic partners or collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our strategic partners or collaborators may not develop technologies or products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing, or sale of these technologies and products. If any of these events occur, or we fail to enter into or maintain strategic alliance or collaboration agreements, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies and products, grow our business, or generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. Our present or future strategic alliance and collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: • We do not achieve our research and development objectives under our strategic alliance and collaboration agreements; • We are unable to fund our obligations under any of our other strategic partners or collaborators; • We develop technologies or products and processes or enter into additional strategic alliances or collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our strategic partners or collaborators; • We disagree with our strategic partners or collaborators as to rights to intellectual property we develop, or their research programs or commercialization activities; • Our strategic partners or collaborators experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our strategic alliances or collaborations; • We are unable to manage multiple simultaneous strategic alliances or collaborations; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become competitors of ours (for example, DuPont has introduced a competing next-generation phytase enzyme) or enter into agreements with our competitors; • Our strategic partners or collaborators become less willing to expend their resources on research and development due to general market conditions or other circumstances beyond our control; • Consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential strategic partners or collaborators; or • We are unable to negotiate additional agreements having terms satisfactory to us. We have relied, and will continue to rely, heavily on strategic partners to support our business. Historically, we have relied upon a number of strategic partners, including current partners like, Novus, DuPont, WeissBioTech, and Fermic to enhance and support our development and commercialization efforts for our industrial enzymes. Historically, DuPont and its predecessor, Danisco, has accounted for a significant percentage of our product revenue. However, DuPont is under no obligation to continue to market Phyzyme® XP phytase and may introduce competing or replacement products at any time. DuPont represented approximately 63% of total product and contract manufacturing revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Under our agreement with DuPont, we receive a royalty equal to 50% of DuPont’s operating profit from their sales of Phyzyme® XP phytase, as defined. We record our quarterly royalty defined by our agreement based on information reported to us by DuPont. We have limited visibility into DuPont’s sales or operating profits related to Phyzyme® XP phytase, and therefore our ability to accurately estimate the royalty payments we may receive from DuPont is also limited. Although we experienced an increase in the royalty from DuPont for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011, we expect to experience future declines with the introduction of competing products that could negatively impact our product revenue and gross profit. 24 Our arrangements with existing and future collaborative partners are, and will continue to be, critical to the success of our business. We cannot guarantee that any new collaborative relationship(s) will be entered into, or if entered into, will continue or be successful. Our collaborative partners could experience business difficulties which eliminate or impair their ability to effectively perform under our arrangements with them. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner’s performance under any such arrangements would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example, our strategic collaboration with Novus to develop and commercialize new enzyme products is dependent on Novus’ ability to successfully develop and commercialize products from our product pipeline, and they may not have the resources or expertise to do so, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We cannot control our collaborative partners’ performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners’ activities. The performance of our programs may be adversely affected and programs may be delayed or terminated or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own as a result of these disagreements. Performance issues, program delays or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the issue of which of us owns the technology and other intellectual property that is developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. We have licensed certain intellectual property from BP, and we must rely on BP to adequately maintain and protect it. In connection with the sale of our LC business to BP on September 2, 2010, we transferred ownership of certain intellectual property for which BP has granted us a license for use within our enzymes business. While the provisions of the purchase agreement provide that BP maintain and protect such intellectual property, there can be no assurance that BP will continue to do so. In addition, BP may be unsuccessful in protecting the intellectual property which we have a license to, if such intellectual property rights are challenged by third parties. While we have certain rights to take action to maintain or protect such intellectual property, in the event that BP determines not to, we may be unsuccessful in protecting the intellectual property if challenged by third parties. If either of these events were to occur, we may lose our rights to certain intellectual property, which could severely harm our business. Similarly, we license additional intellectual property that we use to manufacture our products and otherwise use in our business. In the event that the licensors of this technology do not adequately protect it, our ability to use that technology will also be restricted, resulting in harm to our business. In addition, BP’s rights to use the intellectual property that we have licensed are limited only by the non-competition agreements entered in connection with the sale of our LC business, which agreements have an expiration in September 2015. Following expiration of these agreements, BP will have the right to use without limitation the same intellectual property that we have used and still use to develop our products. Should BP elect to compete with us following such expiration, such competition could harm our business. Funds held in escrow in connection with the sale of the LC business to BP may not be released when expected. Pursuant to the terms of the sale of the LC business to BP in 2010, $5 million of the purchase price was placed in escrow and is subject to the terms of an escrow agreement, to cover our indemnification obligations for potential liabilities and breaches of representations and warranties made by us, most of which survive for a 25 period of 18 months following the closing. BP has provided notice of a potential claim for indemnification by us pursuant to the escrow agreement in connection with a claim made by University of Florida Research Foundation, Inc. (“UFRF”), against BP relating to a license granted by UFRF to a successor of Verenium Biofuels Corporation (now known as BP Biofuels Advanced Technology, Inc.), which was acquired by BP in the 2010 transaction. BP filed an action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida against UFRF on March 5, 2012, for a judgment declaring that the UFRF allegations regarding the license are without merit. Of the $5 million held in escrow, the escrow agent disbursed $2.5 million to us during the first quarter 2012 and the remaining $2.5 million will remain in escrow pending resolution of the UFRF claim against BP. We believe that the UFRF claim against BP, and the potential claim by BP against us for indemnity pertaining to the UFRF claim, are without merit. We cannot be certain of the timing of resolution of the UFRF claim, or whether the UFRF claim against BP, and the BP claim against us for indemnity pertaining to the UFRF claim, will be resolved in a manner that results in release to us of all or any of the amount held in escrow. We should be viewed as an early stage company with limited experience bringing products to the marketplace. You must evaluate our business in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage industrial biotechnology company. While our existing proprietary technologies are proven and our product portfolio includes several established products, our Product Pipeline includes several candidates in varying stages of development. We may not be successful in the continued commercialization of existing products or in the commercial development of new products, or any further technologies, products or processes. Successful products and processes require significant development and investment, including testing, to demonstrate their cost-effectiveness prior to regulatory approval and commercialization. To date, we have commercialized 15 of our own products, including our Fuelzyme® alpha-amylase, Xylathin® xylanase, Pyrolase® cellulase, Pyrolase® HT cellulase, and Luminase® PB-100 xylanase enzymes. In addition, five of our collaborative partners, Life Technologies Corporation, DuPont, Givaudan Flavors Corporation, Cargill Health and Food Technologies, and Syngenta Animal Nutrition (formerly known as Zymetrics, Inc.), have incorporated our technologies or inventions into their own commercial products from which we have generated and/or can generate royalties. Our products and technologies have only recently begun to generate significant revenues. Because of these uncertainties, our discovery process may not result in the identification of product candidates that we or our collaborative partners will successfully commercialize. If we are not able to use our technologies to discover new materials, products, or processes with significant commercial potential, we may continue to have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses for research, development and commercialization efforts and we may be unable to obtain additional funding to fund such efforts. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings, if any, for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our strategy includes entering into and working on simultaneous projects, frequently across multiple industries. This strategy places increased demands on our limited human resources and requires us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, growth, and various projects requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented 26 employees, which we may be unable to do. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner. Moreover, we may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. The failure to successfully meet any of these challenges would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We will rely heavily on our new Pilot Plant, which has only recently started up, for research and development of our products and we cannot be sure that this new asset will perform as needed. In connection with our move to our new corporate headquarters, we engineered and built a new bioprocess development plant, or Pilot Plant, which recently completed its start-up phase and became fully functional in the fourth quarter of 2012 and was placed in service in the first quarter of 2013. We rely on our Pilot Plant to develop products, produce test article for regulatory submissions and determine initial commercial scale manufacturing processes. We do not have an operating history with our new Pilot Plant and cannot be sure that it will continue to operate as designed or to meet our needs. In the event the Pilot Plant does not operate as intended, this could delay our introduction of new products, our research and development efforts both on our own and with our collaborative partners, our regulatory submissions and subsequent approvals, and otherwise delay our commercialization efforts. All of which could harm our relationships with strategic partners or customers and have a negative impact on our product gross profit, our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements that have increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, and NASDAQ, have implemented requirements, standards and regulations, including expanded disclosures, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules, and continue developing additional requirements. Our efforts to comply with these regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue resulting in, increased general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from operating activities to compliance activities. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses or accordingly increase our net loss. Because new and modified laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding financial disclosures and compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosures and governance practices. This further could lead to possible restatements, due to the complex nature of current and future standards and possible misinterpretation or misapplication of such standards. As of December 31, 2012, we identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, investors may be misled and lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosures, and the price of our common stock may be negatively affected. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A “significant deficiency” means a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the Company’s financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 27 In connection with the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for the Annual Report on Form 10-K, as further described in Item 9A, we and our independent registered public accounting firm determined that as of December 31, 2012 our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective due to a material weakness related to our review and accounting associated with significant non-routine transactions. While we do not believe that the material weakness we identified represents a systemic deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in remediating the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or if we discover other deficiencies or material weaknesses, it may adversely impact our ability to report accurately and in a timely manner our financial condition and results of operations in the future, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce accurate, reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we continue to have deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, these deficiencies may negatively impact our business and operations. Our ability to compete in the commercial enzymes industry may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of intellectual property rights to our technologies and products in the United States and foreign countries. If unauthorized parties successfully copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology the value of our owned and in-licensed technology could decline. Monitoring and preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time-consuming and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken or will take in the future will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or at all. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly harmed. Although we seek patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products, as well as anticipated production capabilities and processes, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could greatly harm our business and results of operations. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technologies, products, and business. The patent positions of companies whose businesses are based on biotechnology, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Although we have and intend to continue to apply for patent protection of our technologies, processes and products, even the resulting patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. We cannot assure you that patent applications or patents have not been filed or issued that could block our ability to obtain patents or to operate our business as currently planned. In addition, if third parties develop or otherwise obtain technologies that are similar to or duplicate our technologies, there can be no guarantee that our existing intellectual property protections will prevent such third parties from using such similar or duplicative technologies to compete with us. There may be patents in some countries that, if valid, may block our ability to commercialize processes or products in those countries. There also may be claims in patent applications in some countries that, if granted and valid, may block our ability to commercialize our processes or products in those countries. In any such event there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the rights under such patents to commercialize our processes and products on reasonable terms or at all. Third parties may challenge our intellectual property rights, which, if successful could prevent us from selling products or significantly increase our costs to sell our products and we may be prevented from competing in our industry. 28 Disputes concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and extremely costly and could delay or prevent us from achieving profitability. Our commercial success, if any, will be significantly harmed if we infringe the patent rights of third parties or if we breach any license or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technology or business. We are not currently a party to any litigation, interference, derivation, protest, reexamination, reissue or any other potentially adverse governmental, ex parte or inter-party proceeding with regard to our owned or in-licensed patents or other intellectual property rights. However, the biotechnology industry is characterized by frequent and extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many biotechnology companies with substantially greater resources than us have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. We may become involved in litigation, interference proceedings, derivation proceedings, oppositions, reexamination, protest or other potentially adverse intellectual property proceedings as a result of alleged infringement by us of the rights of others or as a result of priority of invention disputes with third parties. Third parties may also challenge the validity of any of our issued patents. Similarly, we may initiate proceedings to enforce our patent rights and prevent others from infringing our or our licensed intellectual property rights. In any of these circumstances, we might have to spend significant amounts of money, time and effort defending our position and we may not be successful. In addition, any claims relating to the infringement of third party proprietary rights or proprietary determinations, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, lengthy governmental proceedings, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements that are not advantageous to us. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and in some cases issued to, third parties. We cannot assure you that if we are sued on these patents we would prevail. Should any third party have filed, or file in the future, patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference, derivation or other proceedings to determine the right to and scope of a patent for these inventions in the United States. Such proceedings could result in loss of patent scope, even if the outcome is favorable. In addition, the litigation or proceedings could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time, and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent or related litigation could harm our ability to compete and could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. Our policy is to execute confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. 29 Ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetically engineered products and processes could limit or prevent the use of our products, processes, and technologies and limit our revenue. Some of our current and anticipated products are genetically engineered or involve the use of genetically engineered products or genetic engineering technologies. If we and/or our collaborators are not able to overcome the ethical, legal, and social concerns or requirements relating to genetic engineering, some or all of our products and processes may not be accepted. Any of the risks discussed below could result in expenses, delays, or other impediments to our programs or the public acceptance and commercialization of products and processes dependent on our technologies or inventions. Our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our technologies, products, or processes could be limited by the following factors: • public attitudes about the safety and environmental hazards of, and ethical concerns over, genetic research and genetically engineered products and processes, which could influence public acceptance of our technologies, products and processes; • public attitudes regarding, and potential changes to laws governing, ownership of genetic material which could harm our intellectual property rights with respect to our genetic material and discourage collaborative partners from supporting, developing, or commercializing our products, processes and technologies; and • government reaction to negative publicity or other influences concerning genetically modified organisms, which could result in greater government regulation of genetic research and derivative products, including labeling requirements. The subject of genetically modified organisms and products derived from them has received negative publicity, which has aroused public debate in the United States and other countries. This adverse publicity could lead to greater regulation and trade restrictions on imports and exports of genetically altered products. Compliance with regulatory requirements and obtaining required government approvals may be time consuming and costly, and could delay our introduction of products. All phases, including research, development, production, and marketing, of our current and potential products and processes are subject to significant federal, state, local, and/or foreign governmental regulation. Regulatory agencies may not allow us to produce and/or market our products in a timely manner or under technically or commercially feasible conditions, or at all, which could harm our business. In the United States, enzyme products for our target markets are regulated based on their use(s), by either the FDA or the EPA. The FDA regulates drugs, food, and feed, as well as food additives, feed additives, and substances generally recognized as safe that are used in the processing of food or feed. Under current FDA policy, our products, or products of our collaborative partners incorporating our technologies or inventions, to the extent that they come within the FDA’s jurisdiction, may be subject to lengthy FDA reviews and unfavorable FDA determinations if they raise safety questions which cannot be satisfactorily answered, if results from pre-clinical studies do not meet regulatory requirements or if they are deemed to be food additives whose safety cannot be demonstrated. An unfavorable FDA ruling could be difficult to resolve and could delay or possibly prevent a product from being commercialized. Even after investing significant time and expenditures, our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approval for products that incorporate our technologies or inventions on a timely basis, or at all. The EPA regulates biologically-derived enzyme-related chemical substances not within the FDA’s jurisdiction. An unfavorable EPA ruling could delay commercialization or require modification of the production process or product in question, resulting in higher manufacturing costs, thereby making the product uneconomical. 30 New yet-to-be implemented portions of and new regulations yet to be written under the Food Safety Modernization Act may affect or cause us to alter the way we manufacture products in ways we cannot predict, and compliance may be costly and/or interrupt our ability to manufacture products. The Food Safety Modernization Act, or FSMA, which was signed into law in January 2011, has significantly modified the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Many provisions of FSMA have yet to be implemented and implementation will require new rule making by the FDA in the form of additional regulations. Such rule-making could, among other things, require Verenium to significantly amend certain operational policies and procedures. Unforeseen issues and requirements may arise as the FDA promulgates new regulations provided for by FSMA, and there likely will be additional costs of compliance associated with these new requirements. Once FSMA is fully implemented, the FDA may audit or review our activities in a more in-depth manner and require that we take additional action and/or make modifications to our current practices and policies. If we are unable to fully comply with such new requirements, it could lead to sanctions and/ or complete or partial loss of our ability to manufacture products, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of our employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our contemplated facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. Furthermore, as we operate our business, we may become liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties that we own or operate and at off-site locations where we may arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require expending significant amounts for investigation, cleanup, or other costs. In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased government enforcement of environmental laws, or other developments could require us to make additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ethanol production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations and interpretations thereof, more vigorous enforcement of policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage, or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly and could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemical, radioactive, and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these 31 materials. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. In addition, compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development, or production efforts. Many competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of biomolecule discovery and optimization from biodiversity is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Technological development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition in our business. There are a number of companies who compete with us in various steps throughout our technology process. For example, Dyadic, Codexis and Direvo have alternative evolution technologies; Novozymes A/S and DuPont are involved in development, expression, fermentation, and purification of enzymes. There are also a number of academic institutions involved in various phases of our technology process. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do. These organizations may develop technologies that are superior alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors may be more effective at implementing their technologies for modifying DNA to develop commercial products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to and/or are less expensive than other products on the market. Current competitors or other companies may develop technologies and products that are more effective than ours. Our technologies and products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. The existing approaches of our competitors or new approaches or technology developed by our competitors may be more effective than those developed by us. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, it could delay our product development programs, harm our research and development efforts, and we may be unable to pursue collaborations or develop our own products. The loss of any key members of our senior management, or business development or scientific staff, or failure to attract or retain other key management, business development or scientific employees, could prevent us from developing and commercializing new products and entering into collaborations or licensing arrangements to execute on our business strategy. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology and other technology-based businesses, particularly in the San Diego area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our collaborative partners in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs. In particular, our product and process development programs are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, including molecular biologists, biochemists, and engineers. Competition for experienced scientists and other technical personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. Members of our senior management team have not worked together for a significant length of time and they may not be able to work together effectively to develop and implement our business strategies and achieve our 32 business objectives. Management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and others. If our management team is unable to develop successful business strategies, achieve our business objectives, or maintain positive relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or other key constituencies, including our strategic collaborators and partners, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products and processes developed through our technologies or acquired through strategic or other transactions. These activities may require the addition of new personnel, including management, and the development of additional expertise by existing management and other personnel. The inability to acquire these services or to develop this expertise could impair the growth, if any, of our business. We may be sued for product liability. We may be held liable if any product or process we develop, or any product which is made or process which is performed with the use of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, or sale. We currently have limited product liability insurance covering claims up to $10 million that may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, if we attempt to obtain additional product liability insurance coverage, this additional insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products or processes developed by us or our collaborative partners. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Macroeconomic conditions beyond our control could lead to decreases in demand for our products, reduced profitability or deterioration in the quality of our accounts receivable. Domestic and international economic, political and social conditions are uncertain due to a variety of factors, including • global, regional and national economic downturns; • the availability and cost of credit; • volatility in stock and credit markets; • energy costs; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the risk of global conflict; • the risk of terrorism and war in a given country or region; and • public health issues. Our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the general economic health of current and prospective customers, and their desire or ability to make investments in technology. A deterioration of global, regional or local political, economic or social conditions could affect potential customers in a way that reduces demand for our products and disrupts our manufacturing and sales plans and efforts. These global, regional or local conditions also could disrupt commerce in ways that could interrupt our supply chain and our ability to get products to our customers. These conditions may also affect our ability to conduct business as usual. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact reported revenue and expenses. In addition, our sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms that are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in the country in which the customer is located. A deterioration of political, economic or social conditions in a given country or region could reduce or eliminate our ability to collect accounts receivable in that country or region. In any of these events, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 33 The instruments governing our indebtedness contain covenants that we may not be able to meet and place restrictions on our operating and financial flexibility. Our $22.5 million secured term loan or the Term Loan, with Athyrium Opportunities Fund, or Athyrium, bears interest at 11.5% per annum and is secured by substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property. The credit agreement governing the Term Loan contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. For example, pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, our total revenues for any fiscal quarter may not be less than $7.5 million. Should we not meet these quarterly minimum revenue covenants, the lender has the right to demand repayment of the obligations under the Term Loan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the operating and financial covenants under the credit agreement, and we cannot predict whether the lender would demand repayment of the outstanding balance of the Term Loan or exercise any other remedies available to it if we were unable to meet the minimum quarterly revenue covenants. In addition, the covenants in the credit agreement restrict our ability to, among other things, grant certain liens, make certain investments, incur certain debt, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, dispose of assets, make certain restricted payments such as dividend payments, engage in any business not related to our current business strategy, enter into certain transactions with affiliates and insiders, enter into certain agreements that encumber or restrict our ability to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement, use the proceeds from the Term Loan to purchase margin stock, make certain voluntary prepayments on outstanding debt, make certain fundamental changes to our corporate organization, and make certain changes to our existing revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank, or Comerica. In the event of certain disposition transactions, we are required to apply 50% of the net cash proceeds from such transaction to prepay amounts outstanding under the Term Loan, and we are required to apply 100% of the net cash proceeds from any such transaction to prepay amounts outstanding under the Term Loan if the disposition transaction was done involuntarily. Additionally, subject to certain exceptions and annual caps, we are required to apply 50% of the net cash proceeds from any enumerated extraordinary event, such as pension plan reversions, proceeds of insurance, condemnation awards, indemnity payments and purchase price adjustments, to prepay amounts outstanding under the Term Loan. Prepayments of amounts outstanding under the Term Loan are subject to a 15% prepayment premium if made prior to December 7, 2014, or a lesser premium based on the number of months elapsed from December 1, 2014 if made after December 7, 2014. The covenants and restrictions contained in the credit agreement could significantly limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities or take advantage of business opportunities that may create value for our stockholders. In addition, our inability to meet or otherwise comply with the covenants under the credit agreement could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations and could result in an event of default under the terms of our loan and security agreement with Comerica. We recently obtained a waiver from the lender under the credit agreement for defaults caused by the restatement of certain of our historical financial statements that is described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the event of future defaults under the credit agreement for which we are not able to obtain waivers, the lender may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate the credit agreement and Term Loan on terms less favorable to us, or to immediately cease operations. We have also entered into a $7.5 million revolving credit facility with Comerica, or the Credit Line. Advances under the Credit Line bear interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate plus a margin of 4.75%, and are secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding our intellectual property. The loan and security agreement governing the Credit Line contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. Pursuant to the terms of the loan and security agreement, our tangible net worth may not fall below $10 million, plus an escalation of 50% of any equity proceeds received by us from the sale of our equity securities up to an aggregate increase of no more than $5.0 million, and we must maintain an aggregate balance of cash at Comerica covered by a control agreement of not less than $3.0 million. Should we not meet the tangible net worth or cash balance requirements, the lender may eliminate its commitment to make further credit available to us, declare due all unpaid principal amounts outstanding and foreclose on all collateral to satisfy any unpaid obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the operating and financial covenants under the loan and security agreement, and we cannot predict whether the lender would demand 34 repayment of outstanding advances under the Credit Line or exercise any other remedies available to it if we were unable to meet these covenants. In addition, in the event of our default or failure to perform under any agreement to which we are a party with a third party or parties resulting in a right by such third party or parties, whether or not exercised, to accelerate the maturity of any indebtedness in an amount in excess of $0.5 million, or that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, we would be in default under the loan and security agreement. The loan and security agreement also places limitations (subject to customary baskets and exceptions) on our ability to, among other things, dispose of assets, engage in any business not related to our current business strategy, engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, incur debt, grant liens, make certain restricted payments such as dividend payments, make certain investments, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, make payments on subordinated debt, and store inventory or equipment with certain third parties, and contains usual and customary covenants for an arrangement of its type. These and other restrictions contained in the loan and security agreement could significantly limit our ability to respond to changes in our business or competitive activities or take advantage of business opportunities that may create value for our stockholders. On March 29, 2013, we received a letter from Comerica stating that Comerica intends to work with us to issue, within 45 days, a waiver under the Credit Line for defaults caused by the restatement of certain of the Company’s historical financial statements which is more fully described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If Comerica does not issue the waiver, or in the event of future defaults, Comerica may, among other remedies, eliminate its commitment to make further credit available, declare due all unpaid principal amounts outstanding, and foreclose on all collateral to satisfy any unpaid obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had a $1.6 million letter of credit, and no borrowings, outstanding under the Credit Line. If Comerica does not issue the waiver, we intend to terminate the Credit Facility with Comerica to prevent a cross-default under the Aythrium credit agreement, at which time we would likely be required to cash-secure our $1.6 million letter of credit. If we enter into additional debt or credit financing arrangements with the consent of our existing lenders, the terms of such additional debt or credit arrangements could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility. In the event we must cease operations and liquidate our assets, the rights of our existing lenders and any other holder of our outstanding debt would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock to receive any proceeds from the liquidation. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock We are subject to anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because of these provisions, our common stockholders might not be able to receive a premium on their investment. We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, causing investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • termination of strategic alliances and collaborations; • the success rate of our discovery efforts associated with milestones and royalties; 35 • the ability and willingness of strategic partners and collaborators to commercialize, market, and sell royalty-bearing products or processes on expected timelines; • our ability to enter into new agreements with potential strategic partners and collaborators or to extend the terms of our existing strategic alliance agreements and collaborations, and the terms of any agreement of this type; • our need to continuously recruit and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to successfully satisfy all pertinent regulatory requirements; • our ability to successfully commercialize products or processes developed independently or in collaboration with strategic partners and the demand and prices for such products or processes and for our existing products; • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our, and our collaborative partners’, research and development expenditures; • quicker than expected decline in our Phyzyme® XP phytase product; • continued downturn in the corn ethanol market; and • slower than anticipated adoption in our oilfield services product line. A large portion of our expenses, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenue could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would probably decline. The restatement of our historical financial statements has already consumed, and may continue to consume, a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We have restated certain historical financial statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2011 and the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011, March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, primarily to reflect a revision in our accounting for our facility lease. The restatement process was highly time and resource-intensive and involved substantial attention from management and significant legal costs. Although we have now completed the restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will have no inquiries from the SEC or NASDAQ regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our resources in addition to those resources already consumed in connection with the restatement itself. Moreover, many companies that have been required to restate their historical financial statements have experienced a decline in stock price and stockholder lawsuits related to the restatement. We cannot guarantee that we will not be similarly affected. Our stock price has been and may continue to be particularly volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. Between January 1, 2006 and March 25, 2013, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $1.42 to a high of $138.95. Since the completion of our merger with Celunol 36 Corp. on June 20, 2007, the closing market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.42 to $81.96. The closing market price of our common stock on December 31, 2012 was $2.16, and the closing price of our common stock on March 25, 2013 was $2.57. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key collaboration agreements and licensing agreements; • any inability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms to fund our operations and pursue our business plan if additional financing becomes necessary; • our ability to negotiate and enter into definitive agreements related to any financing transaction, if additional financing becomes necessary; • future sales of our common stock or debt or convertible debt securities or other capital-raising activities, and the terms of those issuances of securities; • future royalties from product sales, if any, by our collaborative partners, and the extent of demand for, and sales of, our products; • future royalties and fees for use of our proprietary processes, if any, by our licensees; • contamination or capacity issues at our contracted manufacturing facility in Mexico City; • the initiation of material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights or otherwise; • our results of operations and financial condition, including our cash reserves, cash burn and cost level; • limitation on our ability to engage in certain business activities as a result of our transaction with BP and DSM; • general and industry-specific economic and regulatory conditions that may affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or other products by our competitors; • sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by our large stockholders; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • issuance of shares by us, and sales in the public market of the shares issued, upon exercise of our outstanding warrants; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility related to general economic conditions and may continue to experience volatility for some time. The stock markets have experienced in the past substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Concentration of ownership among our existing officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and depress our stock price. Our officers, directors, and stockholders with at least 10% of our stock together controlled approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. If these officers, directors, and principal 37 stockholders act together, they will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. For instance, officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together, could heavily contribute to our entering into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. Similarly, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could depress our stock price. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2012, we had 12,782,894 shares of common stock outstanding. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Likewise the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including upon the exercise of some or all of our outstanding warrants, could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these warrants may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants. Moreover, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, or couple any debt, receivables or royalty financings with an equity component, the market price of our common stock may decline and our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 