Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors The following factors could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. These factors could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and elsewhere. Please also see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements” for additional factors which could have a significant impact on our operations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Weather (temperatures and precipitation levels) has a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Weather impacts are described in the following subtopics: • retail electricity and natural gas sales, • the cost of natural gas supply, and • the cost of power supply. Retail electricity and natural gas sales volumes vary directly with changes in temperatures. We normally have our highest retail (electric and natural gas) energy sales during the winter heating season in the first and fourth quarters of the year. We also have high electricity demand for air conditioning during the summer (third quarter). In general, warmer weather in the heating season and cooler weather in the cooling season will reduce our customers’ energy demand and retail operating revenues. The cost of natural gas supply tends to increase with increased demand during periods of cold weather. Increased costs may adversely affect cash flows during periods when we purchase natural gas for retail supply at prices above the amount currently allowed for recovery in retail rates. We defer differences between actual natural gas supply costs and the amount currently recovered in retail rates and we have generally been allowed to recover substantially all of these differences after regulatory review. However, these deferred costs require cash outflows from the time of natural gas purchases until the costs are later recovered through retail sales. The cost of power supply can be significantly impacted by weather. Precipitation (consisting of snowpack and its melting pattern plus rainfall) and other streamflow conditions (such as regional water storage operations) significantly affect hydroelectric generation capability. Variations in hydroelectric generation inversely affect our reliance on market purchases and thermal generation. To the extent that hydroelectric generation is less than normal, significantly more costly power supply resources are required and the ability to realize net benefits from surplus hydroelectric wholesale sales is reduced. The price of power in the wholesale energy markets tends to be higher during periods of high regional demand, such as occurs with temperature extremes. We may need to purchase power in the wholesale market during peak price periods. The price of natural gas as fuel for natural gas-fired electric generation also tends to increase during periods of high demand which are often related to temperature extremes. We may need to purchase natural gas fuel in these periods of high prices to meet electric demands. The cost of power supply during peak usage periods may be higher than the retail sales price or the amount allowed in retail rates by our regulators. To the extent that power supply costs are above the amount allowed currently in retail rates, the difference is partially absorbed by the Company in current expense and it is partially deferred or shared with customers through regulatory mechanisms. Therefore, the impact on our results of operations may be larger or smaller than the weather-related impact on power supply cost. As a result of these factors operating in combination, our net cost of power supply – the difference between our costs of generation and market purchases, reduced by our revenue from wholesale sales – varies significantly because of weather. We have significant capital requirements that we expect to fund, in part, by accessing capital markets. Financial market conditions may impact our results of operations and our liquidity. Deterioration in the financial markets and credit availability and the state of the global, United States and regional economies could have an impact on our operations. We could experience increased borrowing costs or limited access to capital on reasonable terms. Additionally, we may experience an increase in uncollectible customer 13 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION accounts and collection times. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth. The deterioration in the financial markets could also result in significant declines in the market values of assets held by our pension plan (which impacts the funded status of the plan) and could increase future funding obligations and pension expense. We rely on access to credit from financial institutions for short-term borrowings. We need to maintain access to adequate levels of credit with financial institutions for short-term liquidity. We have $320 million and $75 million committed lines of credit, which are scheduled to expire in April 2011. We cannot predict whether we will have access to credit beyond the expiration date. The line of credit agreements contain customary covenants and default provisions. In the event of default, it would be difficult for us to obtain financing on reasonable terms to pay creditors or fund operations. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. We are dependent on our ability to access long-term capital markets. We need to access long-term capital markets to finance capital expenditures, repay maturing long-term debt and obtain additional working capital from time to time. Our ability to access capital on reasonable terms is subject to numerous factors and market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to obtain capital on reasonable terms, it may limit or prohibit our ability to finance capital expenditures and repay maturing long-term debt. Our liquidity needs could exceed our short-term credit availability and lead to defaults on various financing arrangements. We would also likely be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. We are subject to commodity price risk. A combination of factors exposes our operations to commodity price risks. These factors include: • Our obligation to serve our retail customers at rates set through the regulatory process. We cannot change retail rates to reflect current energy prices unless and until we receive regulatory approval. • Customer demand, which is beyond our control because of weather, customer choices, prevailing economic conditions and other factors. • Some of our energy supply cost is fixed by nature of the energy-producing assets or through contractual arrangements. However, a significant portion of our energy resource costs are not fixed. Because we must supply the amount of energy demanded by our customers and we must sell it at fixed rates and only a portion of our energy supply costs are fixed, we are subject to the risk of higher prices in wholesale energy markets. Electricity and natural gas in wholesale markets are commodities with historically high price volatility. Changes in wholesale energy prices affect, among other things, the cash requirements to purchase electricity and natural gas for retail customers or wholesale obligations and the market value of derivative assets and liabilities. Even when we enter into fixed price energy commodity transactions for future delivery, we are subject to credit terms that may require us to provide collateral to wholesale counterparties related to the difference between current prices and the agreed upon fixed prices. These collateral requirements can place significant demands on our cash flows or borrowing arrangements. Price volatility can cause collateral requirements to change quickly and significantly. Regulators may not grant rates that provide timely or sufficient recovery of our costs or allow a reasonable rate of return for our shareholders. We have experienced higher costs for utility operations in each of the last several years. We have also made significant capital investments into utility plant assets. Our ability to recover these costs depends on the amount and timeliness of retail rate changes allowed by regulatory agencies. We expect to periodically file for rate increases with regulatory agencies to recover our costs and provide a reasonable return to our shareholders. If regulators grant substantially lower rate increases than our requests in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operating revenues, net income and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION Deferred power and natural gas costs are subject to regulatory review; costs higher than those recovered in base rates reduce cash flows. We defer income statement recognition and recovery from customers of certain power and natural gas costs that are higher than what is currently authorized by regulators. These power and natural gas costs are recorded as deferred charges with the opportunity for future recovery through retail rates. These deferred costs are subject to review for prudence and for the potential of disallowance by regulators. Despite the opportunity to recover deferred power and natural gas costs, our operating cash flows are negatively affected until these costs are recovered from customers. Our energy resource management activities may cause volatility in our cash flows and results of operations. We engage in active hedging and resource optimization practices; however, we cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our energy resource assets or our forecasted net positions for various time horizons. To reduce energy cost volatility and economic exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity and natural gas, as well as forecasted excess or deficit energy positions and inventories of natural gas. We use physical energy contracts and derivative instruments, such as forwards, futures, swaps and options traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We do not cover the entire market price volatility exposure for our forecasted net positions. To the extent we have positions that are not hedged, or if hedging positions do not fully match the corresponding purchase or sale, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material effect on our operating revenues, resource costs, derivative assets and liabilities, and operating cash flows. In addition, actual loads and resources typically vary from forecasts, sometimes to a significant degree, which requires additional transactions or dispatch decisions that impact cash flows. Downgrades in our credit ratings could limit our ability to obtain financing, adversely affect the terms of financing and impact our ability to acquire energy resources. We restored an overall corporate investment grade credit rating with the three major credit rating agencies. Our credit ratings were downgraded during 2001, which resulted in an overall corporate credit rating that was below investment grade. The downgrades were due to liquidity concerns primarily related to the significant amount of purchased power and natural gas costs that we incurred in our utility operations. These downgrades increased our debt service costs. Any future downgrades could limit our ability to access capital markets or obtain other financing on reasonable terms. Future downgrades could also require us to provide letters of credit and/or collateral to lenders and counterparties. In addition, future downgrades could reduce the number of counterparties willing to do business with us. We are subject to various operational and event risks that are common to the utility industry. Our utility operations are subject to operational and event risks that include: • blackouts or disruptions to distribution, transmission or transportation systems, • forced outages at generating plants, • fuel cost and availability, including delivery constraints, • disruptions to our information systems and other administrative resources required for normal operations, • weather conditions and natural disasters that can cause physical damage to property, requiring repairs to restore utility service, and • terrorism and other malicious threats. We are currently the subject of several regulatory proceedings, and we are named in multiple lawsuits related to our participation in western energy markets as disclosed in “Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Through our utility operations and the prior operations of Avista Energy, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings and complaints related to energy markets in the western United States. Most of these proceedings and complaints relate to the significant increase in the spot market price of energy in 2000 and 2001. This allegedly contributed to or caused unjust and unreasonable prices. These proceedings and complaints include, but are not limited to: • refund proceedings in California and the Pacific Northwest, • market conduct investigations by the FERC, and • complaints filed by various parties related to alleged misconduct by parties in western power markets. 15 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION As a result of these proceedings and complaints, certain parties have asserted claims for significant refunds and damages from us, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. See “Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information. Any potential refunds or obligations arising from western energy market issues (or any other contingent matters) were retained by Avista Energy as part of its asset sale agreement in June 2007. We are subject to legislation and related administrative rulemaking, including periodic audits of compliance with such rules, which may adversely affect our operational and financial performance. We expect to continue to be affected by legislation at the national, state and local level, as well as by administrative rules and requirements published by government agencies, including the FERC and the EPA. We are also subject to NERC and WECC reliability standards. The FERC, the NERC and the WECC may perform periodic audits of the Company. Failure to comply with the FERC, the NERC, or the WECC requirements can result in financial penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation. Future legislation or administrative rules could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There has been increasing legislative action related to concerns over long-term global climate changes, which may affect our operational and financial performance. We are subject to legislative developments at both the state and national level for the potential of further restrictions on sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, as well as other greenhouse gas and mercury emissions. Our operations could be affected by changes in laws and regulations intended to mitigate the risk of global climate changes, including restrictions on the operation of our power generation resources. In particular, a greenhouse gas bill was passed by the legislature in the state of Washington and a bill was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. There will most likely be continuing activity in the near future. Environmental laws and regulations may: • increase the operating costs of generating plants, • increase the lead time and capital costs for the construction of new generating plants, • require modification of our existing generating plants, • require existing generating plant operations to be curtailed or shut down, • reduce the amount of energy available from our generating plants, and • restrict the types of generating plants that can be built. We have contingent liabilities, including certain matters related to potential environmental liabilities, and cannot predict the outcome of these matters. In the normal course of our business, we have matters that are the subject of ongoing litigation, mediation, investigation and/or negotiation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome or potential impact of any particular issue, including the extent, if any, of insurance coverage or that amounts payable by us may be recoverable through the ratemaking process. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities related to our past, present and future operations. See “Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further details of these matters including: • a potential liability related to contamination from the holding ponds at Colstrip in Montana, • waste oil delivered to the Harbor Oil, Inc. site in Portland, Oregon, and • aluminum dross located on a parcel of land we own near the Spokane River. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 16 Table of Contents AVISTA CORPORATION 