Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Listed below are certain risk factors associated with us and our businesses. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. -8- We sell many of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Each of the markets we serve is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar products. We focus our efforts on the middle and high-end segment of the market, where product design, quality and durability are the primary competitive factors. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs, especially those located in Asia. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers in any of the industries in which we compete may result in reduced demand for our products. In addition, in some of our businesses new competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Sales for certain of our products, principally precision slides and ergonomic products, are concentrated in the office furniture industry which has in the past experienced significant reductions in demand that could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Sales of our products to the office furniture manufacturing industry accounted for approximately 51%, 43% and 36% for 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The future growth, if any, of the office furniture industry will be affected by a variety of macroeconomic factors, such as service industry employment levels, corporate cash flows and non-residential commercial construction, as well as industry factors such as corporate reengineering and restructuring, technology demands, ergonomic, health and safety concerns and corporate relocations. There can be no assurance that current or future economic or industry trends will not materially adversely affect our business. Our failure to enter into new markets would result in the continued significant impact of fluctuations in demand within the office furniture manufacturing industry on our operating results. In an effort to reduce our dependence on the office furniture market for certain products and to increase our participation in other markets, we have been devoting resources to identifying new customers and developing new applications for those products in markets outside of the office furniture industry, such as home appliances and tool boxes. Developing these new applications for our products involves substantial risk and uncertainties due to our limited experience with customers and applications in these markets as well as facing competitors who are already established in these markets. We may not be successful in developing new customers or applications for our products outside of the office furniture industry. Significant time may be required for such development and uncertainty exists as to the extent to which we will face competition in this regard. Our development of new products as well as innovative features for current products is critical to sustaining and growing our sales. Historically, our ability to provide value-added custom engineered products that address requirements of technology and space utilization has been a key element of our success. The introduction of new products and features requires the coordination of the design, manufacturing and marketing of such products with potential customers. The ability to implement such coordination may be affected by factors beyond our control. While we will continue to emphasize the introduction of innovative new products that target customer-specific opportunities, there can be no assurance that any new products we introduce will achieve the same degree of success that we have achieved with our existing products. Introduction of new products typically requires us to increase production volume on a timely basis while maintaining product quality. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in increasing production volumes, including delays, quality control problems and shortages of qualified personnel. As we attempt to introduce new products in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase production volume without encountering these or other problems, which might negatively impact our financial condition or results of operations. -9- We have in the past pursued, and intend to pursue in the future, a growth strategy through acquisitions which could negatively affect operating results if the acquired businesses are not successful. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions will depend on many factors, including, among others, our ability to identify suitable growth opportunities and to successfully integrate acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that we will anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our management and management information systems. Any failure by us to adapt our systems and procedures to those changing demands could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Higher costs of our raw materials may decrease our liquidity. Certain of the raw materials used in our products are commodities that are subject to significant fluctuations in price in response to world wide supply and demand. Coiled steel is the major raw material used in the manufacture of precision ball bearing slides and ergonomic computer support systems. Plastic resins for injection molded plastics are also an integral material for ergonomic computer support systems. Zinc is a principal raw material used in the manufacture of security products. These raw materials are purchased from several suppliers and are generally readily available from numerous sources. We occasionally enter into raw material supply arrangements to mitigate the short-term impact of future increases in raw material costs. Materials purchased outside of these arrangements are sometimes subject to unanticipated and sudden price increases. Should our vendors not be able to meet their contractual obligations or should we be otherwise unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we may incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels, either of which may decrease our liquidity as we may be unable to offset such higher costs with increased selling prices for our products. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 