ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in us or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Many factors may cause our net revenues, operating results, and cash flows to fluctuate and possibly decline. Our net revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors may include: · Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in each of our business segments; · Our ability in our Health Delivery Services and Health Delivery Outsourcing business units to generate a pipeline of business and provide consistent service quality with a restructured sales organization and new business unit leader in each unit; · The loss of one or more significant clients in any of our business segments, including any failure to secure renewals for any of our large outsourcing contracts or the early termination of any significant contracts; · The ability of our management team to effectively manage a diverse group of business units and operations; · Use of offsite and offshore resources on our engagements and adoption of a global delivery model in the healthcare IT industry; · The roll-off or completion of significant projects in any of our business segments; · Fluctuations in market demand for our services which affect associate hiring and utilization; · Delays or increased expenses in securing and completing client engagements; · Timing and collection of fees and payments; · The financial performance and credit worthiness of our clients; · Timing of new client engagements in any of our business segments; · Increased competition and pricing pressures; · Budgeting and other capital expenditure decisions of our clients; · Our ability to anticipate changing customer demands and preferences; · Our ability to incorporate the use of variable labor staffing into our projects; · The loss of key personnel and other employees; · Changes in our, and our competitors’, business strategy, pricing, and billing policies; 9 · The timing of certain general and administrative expenses; · Costs associated with integrating acquired operations; · Costs associated with the disposition of certain assets; · Impairment of goodwill from our acquisitions; · The write-off of client billings; · Return of fees for work deemed unsatisfactory by a client or claims or litigation resulting from the same; · Service level credits and penalties associated with our outsourcing engagements; · Impact of inflation on our long term contracts to the extent such contracts do not have pricing protection for hyperinflation; · Entry into fixed price engagements and engagements where some fees are contingent upon the client realizing a certain return on investment for a project; · Availability of foreign net operating losses and other credits against our earnings; · International currency fluctuations; · Expenses related to the issuance of restricted stock or stock options to our employees; and · The fixed nature of a substantial portion of our expenses, particularly personnel and related costs, depreciation, office rent, and occupancy costs. One or more of the foregoing factors may cause our operating expenses to be unexpectedly high or result in a decrease in our revenues during any given period. In addition, we bill certain of our services on a fixed-price basis, and any project delays or unexpected time expenditures for the project could result in reduced gross margins, or losses. Significant margin reductions or losses could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business also has significant collection risks. If we are unable to collect our receivables in a timely manner, our business and financial condition could also suffer. If these or any other variables or unknowns were to cause a shortfall in revenues or earnings or otherwise cause a failure to meet public market expectations, our business could be adversely affected. Finally, we reported a net loss for the years ended December 30, 2005 and December 26, 2003. We cannot assure you that we will achieve or maintain positive earnings in the future. If we are unable to achieve sustained profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected and our financial condition would suffer. We are dependent on our outsourcing engagements for a significant part of our revenues. Net revenues from our outsourcing relationships, for the year ended December 29, 2006, represented approximately 41.3% of our consolidated net revenues. The substantial majority of these revenues are received from three large outsourcing accounts that signed long-term agreements with us. In the first quarter of 2006, we received a one year extension of one of our existing major outsourcing contracts, University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS), and that contract is now set to expire on March 31, 2007. If not renewed or extended prior to that date, the contract converts to a six month transition services contract. We currently have no assurances that the contract will be extended and the renewal process is currently being competitively bid. We have no assurances that our proposal will be deemed competitive or successful against the multiple service providers that are competing for the new contract. The loss of any of our remaining three large outsourcing relationships, including a failure to gain renewal of any of these 10 contracts or a longer term renewal at UPHS, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Further, if we are unable to successfully close and implement the new outsourcing relationships that we are pursuing (including the renewal of our existing outsourcing clients, both large and small), our business and results of operations will be materially adversely impacted. We recognize revenue from certain service elements of our outsourcing agreements on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Since we typically incur greater costs and expenses during the early phase of those service elements (which have straight-line revenue recognition) than we do in the subsequent years of those elements, we believe our profitability is lower during the early stages of our outsourcing engagements. In addition, if we are unable to manage costs as planned in the later stages of an outsourcing engagement, our profitability could likewise be lower. In general, income from our outsourcing contracts is susceptible to changes in the mix of newer versus older contracts, and to the impact of cost fluctuations from quarter to quarter without a compensating change in revenues. If we fail to meet our public market expectations or otherwise experience a shortfall in our net income due to these fluctuations, our business could be adversely affected and the price of our stock may decline. In many of our outsourcing engagements, the clients have fully outsourced their information technology staff and functions to us. In all of our outsourcing relationships, we generally enter into detailed service level agreements, which establish performance levels and standards for our services. If we fail to meet these performance levels or standards, our clients may receive monetary service level credits from us or, if we experience persistent failures, our clients may have a right to terminate the outsourcing contract for cause and have no obligation to pay us any termination fees. Our anticipated revenues and profitability from our outsourcing engagements could be significantly reduced if we are unable to satisfy our performance levels or standards, or if we are unable to improve our delivery costs as planned on such engagements. Additionally, our outsourcing contracts can be terminated at the convenience of our clients upon the payment of a termination fee. In addition, many of our outsourcing agreements require that we invest significant amounts of time and resources in order to win the engagement, transition the client’s information technology department to our management, and complete the initial transformation of our client’s information technology functioning to provide improved service at a lower cost and meet agreed-upon service levels. Often, we recover this investment through payments over the life of the outsourcing agreement. If we are unable to achieve agreed-upon service levels or otherwise breach the terms of our outsourcing agreements, the clients may have rights to terminate our agreements for cause and we may be unable to recover our investments. In addition, our pricing for many of these agreements generally assume that we can reduce and manage costs so as to achieve desired margins and recoup our investments. Any failure by us to effectively reduce and manage costs and/or recover these investments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and price of our common stock. Our outsourcing engagements may also require that we hire part or all of a client’s information technology personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain these individuals, and effectively hire additional personnel as needed to meet the obligations of our contract. Any failure by us to retain these individuals or otherwise satisfy our contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our outsourcing business and our reputation as an information technology services outsourcing provider. Finally, we continue to pursue the outsourcing of discrete information technology services for clients. The amount of time and resources required to win client engagements for our outsourcing business is significant, and we may not win the number or type of client engagements that we anticipate. If we fail to meet our objective to secure new outsourcing engagements, or fail to secure new outsourcing engagements on acceptable commercial terms, we will not experience the growth in this business that we have anticipated. 11 The length of time required to engage a client and to complete an assignment may be unpredictable and could negatively impact our net revenues and operating results. The timing of securing our client engagements and service fulfillment is difficult to predict with any degree of accuracy. Prior engagement cycles are not necessarily an indication of the timing of future client engagements or revenues. The length of time required to secure a new client engagement or complete an assignment often depends on factors outside our control, including: · Existing information systems at the client site; · Changes or the anticipation of changes in the regulatory environment affecting healthcare and pharmaceutical organizations; · Changes in the management or ownership of the client; · Budgetary cycles and constraints; · Changes in the anticipated scope of engagements; · Availability of personnel and other resources; and · Consolidation in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries. Prior to client engagements, we typically spend a substantial amount of time and resources (1) identifying strategic or business issues facing the client, (2) defining engagement objectives, (3) gathering information, (4) preparing proposals, and (5) negotiating contracts. Our failure to procure an engagement after spending such time and resources could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also be required to hire new associates before securing a client engagement. If clients defer committing to new assignments for any length of time or for any reason we could be required to maintain a significant number of under-utilized associates which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition during any given period. Further, our outsourcing business has very long sales and contract lead times, requiring us to spend a substantial amount of time and resources in attempting to secure each outsourcing engagement. We cannot predict whether the investment of time and resources will result in a new outsourcing engagement or, if the engagement is secured, that the engagement will be on terms favorable to us. Our investments in products and emerging service lines may not generate a positive return. We have invested in development of products such as FirstDoc® and FirstGatewaysTM. These investments are in addition to continuing our investments in other emerging service lines and products and the investments have not generated significant returns to date. As a result, our financial results may continue to be adversely impacted by product investment. If such product development activities or investment in our emerging service lines do not result in relevant offerings and sales, we will not achieve desired levels of return on these investments. As a result, we may need to write off these investments or sell them at a loss. If we are unable to generate additional revenue from our existing clients, our business may be negatively affected. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from additional services provided to our existing clients. The loss of a small number of clients, a reduction in the number of engagements with these clients, or the failure to secure renewals from any of our outsourcing clients may result in a material decline in revenues and cause us to fail to meet public market expectations of our financial performance and operating results. If we fail to generate additional revenues from our existing clients, it may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 If we fail to meet client expectations in the performance of our services, our business could suffer. Our failure to meet client expectations in the performance of our services, including the quality, cost, and timeliness of our services, may damage our reputation in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients. If a client is not satisfied with our services, we will generally spend additional human and other resources at our own expense to ensure client satisfaction. Such expenditures will typically result in a lower or negative margin on such engagements and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, in the course of providing our services, we will often recommend the use of software and hardware products. These products may not perform as expected or contain defects. If this occurs, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to liability. We attempt contractually to limit our exposure to potential liability claims; however, such limitations may not be effective. A successful liability claim brought against us may adversely affect our reputation in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we maintain professional liability insurance, such insurance may not provide adequate coverage for successful claims against us and would not cover damages to our reputation. Our international operations create specialized risks that can negatively affect us. We are subject to many risks as a result of the services we provide to our international clients or services we may provide through subcontractors or employees that are located outside of the U.S. We have business operations and employees located in India, Vietnam, and throughout Europe. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: · Increasing and uncertain labor costs and high turnover rates; · Difficulties in creating market demand for our offshore services based on perceived quality issues and potential political risk; · Difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; · Difficulties and costs of tailoring our services to each individual country’s healthcare and pharmaceutical market needs; · Currency fluctuations; · Higher than acceptable attrition rates in our offshore centers; · Recruiting and hiring employees, and other employment issues unique to international operations, including ability to secure or renew work visas for foreign employees in the U.S.; · Restrictions on travel or other work conditions imposed by foreign governments; · Additional costs, including income tax equalization, associated with foreign employees coming to work in the U.S.; · Longer payment cycles in some countries and difficulties in collecting international accounts receivable; · Terrorist attacks or armed hostilities; · Global health/disease issues which may affect our workforce in the US or abroad; · Adverse tax consequences; · Increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts and offices; 13 · Government regulations and restrictions; · Adverse changes in regulatory requirements; and · Economic or political instability. We perform services in Europe for our international pharmaceutical clients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to be profitable in our European operations, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and price for our common stock. Our acquisition of Paragon Solutions, Inc. (now FCG Software Services) in 2003 provided us a means to implement our global sourcing strategy to provide software development and other information technology services from India and Vietnam. If we are unable to realize perceived cost benefits of such a strategy or if we are unable to receive high quality services from foreign employees or subcontractors, our business may be adversely impacted. Any one or all of these factors may cause increased operating costs, lower than anticipated financial performance, and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not compete effectively in the healthcare and pharmaceutical information services industries, our business will be negatively impacted. The market for healthcare and pharmaceutical information technology consulting and products is very competitive. We have competitors that provide some or all of the same services that we provide. We compete for consulting services with large international multi-industry firms, and regional and specialty consulting firms. In implementation and integration services, we compete with information system vendors, service groups of computer equipment companies, specialty consulting firms, and systems integration companies. In outsourcing, we compete with large multi-national companies. We also compete with offshore service companies that provide software development, IT consulting, and other integration and maintenance services. In recent years, some of our clients’ internal information management departments have become a competitor by internally performing more IT related services. Several of our competitors employ a global sourcing strategy to provide software development and other information technology services to their clients, while at the same time reducing their cost structure and improving the quality of services they provide. If we are unable to realize the perceived cost benefits of our global sourcing strategy or if we are unable to receive high quality services from foreign employees or subcontractors, our business may be adversely impacted and we may not be able to compete effectively. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, human, and marketing resources than us. As a result, such competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer demands, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products and services than we do. In addition, as healthcare organizations become larger and more complex, our larger competitors may be better able to serve the needs of such organizations. If we do not compete effectively with current and future competitors, we may be unable to secure new and renewed client engagements, or we may be required to reduce our rates in order to compete effectively. This could result in a reduction in our revenues, resulting in lower earnings or operating losses, and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. Our business is labor-intensive and requires highly skilled employees. Many of our associates possess extensive expertise in the healthcare, insurance, pharmaceutical, information technology, and consulting fields. To serve a growing client base, we must continue to recruit, train, develop, and retain qualified 14 personnel with expertise in each of these areas. We must also seek certain employees who are willing to work on a variable or per diem basis. Competition for such personnel is intense and we compete for such personnel with management consulting firms, healthcare and pharmaceutical organizations, software firms, and other businesses. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, or can offer more attractive compensation packages to candidates, including salary, bonuses, stock, and stock options. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to serve existing and new clients, our ability to expand our client base or services and to offer our services at competitive rates could be impaired and our business would suffer. The loss of our key client service employees and executive officers could negatively affect us. Our performance depends on the continued service of our executive officers, senior managers, and key employees. In particular, we depend on such persons to secure new clients and engagements and to manage our business and affairs. The loss of such persons could result in the disruption of our business, longer or delayed sales cycles, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have not entered into long-term employment contracts with any of our employees and do not maintain key employee life insurance. We have experienced employee turnover as a result of: · Dependence on lateral hiring of associates; · Travel demands imposed on our associates; · Loss of employees to competitors and clients; and · Reductions in force as certain areas of our business have seen less demand. Continued or increased employee turnover could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, many of our associates develop strong business relationships with our clients. We depend on these relationships to generate additional assignments and engagements. The loss of a substantial number of associates could erode our client base and decrease our revenues, and could adversely impact our ability to meet contractual obligations to clients. If we are unable to manage shifts in market demand or growth in our business, our business may be negatively impacted. In response to shifts in market demand and in an effort to better align our business with our markets, we have restructured our organization and hired persons with appropriate skills, including salespersons, and reduced our workforce in practice areas experiencing less demand. We have also hired employees willing to work on a variable or per diem basis in order to better manage project costs and general and administrative expenses associated with underutilized resources. These market conditions and restructuring efforts have placed new and increased demands on our management personnel. They have also placed significant and increasing demands on our financial, technical and operational resources, and on our information systems. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or if we experience business disruptions due to shifts in market demand, or growth or restructuring, our operating results will suffer. To manage any future growth, we must extend our financial reporting and information management systems to our multiple and international office locations and traveling employees, and develop and implement new procedures and controls to accommodate new operations, services, and clients. Increasing operational and administrative demands may make it difficult for our senior managers to engage in business development activities and their other day-to-day responsibilities. Further, the addition of new employees and offices to offset any increasing demands may impair our ability to maintain our service delivery standards and corporate culture. In addition, we have in the past changed, and may in the future change, our organizational structure and business strategy. Such changes may result in operational inefficiencies 15 and delays in delivering our services. Such changes could also cause a disruption in our business and could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries could negatively impact our revenues. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from clients in the healthcare industry. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations are influenced by conditions affecting this industry, particularly any trends towards consolidation among healthcare and pharmaceutical organizations. Such consolidation may reduce the number of existing and potential clients for our services. In addition, the resulting organizations could have greater bargaining power, which could erode the current pricing structure for our services and decrease our revenues. The reduction in the size of our target market or our failure to maintain our pricing goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Finally, each of the markets we serve have experienced significant cost increases and pressures in recent years. Any continuation or acceleration of current market conditions could greatly impact our ability to secure or retain engagements, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. A portion of our revenues has also come from companies in the pharmaceutical industry. Our revenues are, in part, linked to the pharmaceutical industry’s research and development and technology expenditures. Should any of the following events occur in the pharmaceutical industry, our business could be negatively affected in a material way: · Continued adverse changes to the industry’s general economic environment; · Continued consolidation of companies; or · A decrease in pharmaceutical companies’ research and development or technology expenditures. We could be negatively impacted if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. We may acquire complementary businesses to enhance our capability to serve the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries. All acquisitions involve risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. These risks include: · Distracting management from our business; · Losing key personnel and other employees; · Losing clients; · Costs, delays, and inefficiencies associated with integrating acquired operations and personnel; · The impairment of acquired assets and goodwill; · Acquiring the contingent and other liabilities of the businesses we acquire; and · Not realizing the intended or expected benefits of the acquisitions. In addition, acquired businesses may not enhance our services, provide us with increased client opportunities, or result in the growth that we anticipate. Furthermore, integrating acquired operations is a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process. Combining acquired operations with us may result in lower overall operating margins, greater stock price volatility, and quarterly earnings fluctuations. Cultural incompatibilities, career uncertainties, and other factors associated with such acquisitions may also result in the loss of employees and clients. Failing to acquire and successfully integrate complementary practices, or failing to achieve the business synergies or other anticipated benefits, could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with vendors of software and hardware products, it could have a negative effect on our ability to secure engagements. We have a number of relationships with software and hardware vendors. For example, our Life Sciences business is highly dependent upon a non-exclusive relationship with EMC Documentum, a vendor of document management software applications with which we integrate our FirstDoc® solution. We often are engaged by vendors or their customers to implement or integrate vendor products based on our relationship with a particular vendor. In addition, our clients may request that we host or operate a vendor application as part of a hosting or outsourcing relationship, which may require the consent or cooperation of the vendor. As a result, we believe that our relationships with vendors are important to our operations, including our sales, marketing, and support activities. If we fail to maintain our relationships with these vendors, or fail to establish additional new relationships, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our relationships with vendors of software and hardware products could have a negative impact on our ability to secure consulting engagements. Our growing number of relationships with software and hardware vendors could result in clients perceiving that we are not independent from those software and hardware vendors. Our ability to secure assessment and other consulting engagements is often dependent, in part, on our being independent of software and hardware solutions that we may review, analyze, or recommend to clients. If clients believe that we are not independent of those software and hardware vendors, clients may not engage us for certain consulting engagements relating to those vendors, which could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our business. If we fail to keep pace with regulatory and technological changes, our business could be materially adversely affected. The healthcare and pharmaceutical industries are subject to regulatory and technological changes that may affect the procurement practices and operations of healthcare and pharmaceutical organizations. During the past several years, the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries have been subject to an increase in governmental regulation and reform proposals. These reforms could increase governmental involvement in the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries, lower reimbursement rates, or otherwise change the operating environment of our clients. Also, certain reforms that create potential work for us could be delayed or cancelled. Healthcare and pharmaceutical organizations may react to these situations by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our skill and expertise in light of regulatory or technological changes, our services may not be marketable to our clients and we could lose existing clients or future engagements. Finally, government regulations, particularly HIPAA, may require our clients to impose additional contractual responsibilities on us, which may make it more costly to perform certain of our engagements and subject us to increased risk in the performance of these engagements, including immediate termination of an engagement. Technological change in the network and application markets has created high demand for consulting, implementation, and integration services. If the pace of technological change were to diminish, we could experience a decrease in demand for our services. Any material decrease in demand would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be unable to effectively protect our proprietary information and procedures. We must protect our proprietary information, including our proprietary methodologies, research, tools, software code, and other information. To do this, we rely on a combination of copyright and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to protect our intellectual property. These steps may not protect 17 our proprietary information. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect or enforce proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We are currently providing our services to clients in international markets and have business operations in Europe, India and Vietnam. Our proprietary information may not be protected to the same extent as provided under the laws of the United States, if at all. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Our success depends, in part, on not infringing patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights held by others. We do not know whether patents held or patent applications filed by third parties may force us to alter our methods of business and operation or require us to obtain licenses from third parties. If we attempt to obtain such licenses, we do not know whether we will be granted licenses or whether the terms of those licenses will be fair or acceptable to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future. Such claims may result in protracted and costly litigation, penalties, judgments, and fines that could adversely affect our business regardless of the merits of such claims. We may become subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could result in a diversion of resources. If our stock price experiences periods of volatility, our security holders may initiate securities class action litigation against us. If we become involved in this type of litigation it could be very expensive and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our charter documents, Delaware law and stockholders rights plan will make it more difficult to acquire us and may discourage take-over attempts and thus depress the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 9,500,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, to determine the powers, preferences, and rights and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions granted to or imposed upon any unissued series of undesignated preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. Furthermore, any preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock, and as a result, the issuance of any preferred stock could depress the market price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation eliminates the right of stockholders to act without a meeting and does not provide cumulative voting for the election of directors. Our certificate of incorporation also provides for a classified Board of Directors. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and these other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us, impede a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control. Any of these provisions, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. In 1999, our Board of Directors adopted a rights agreement that is intended to protect our stockholders’ interests in the event we are confronted with coercive takeover tactics. Pursuant to the stockholders rights plan, we distributed “rights” to purchase up to 500,000 shares of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Under some circumstances, these rights become the rights to purchase shares of our common stock or securities of an acquiring entity at one-half the market value. The rights are 18 not intended to prevent our takeover, rather they are designed to deal with the possibility of unilateral actions by hostile acquirers that could deprive our Board of Directors and stockholders of their ability to determine our destiny and obtain the highest price for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 