ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks The Company's business is subject to many risks. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Additional risk factors may impair the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks related to the Manager Conflicts of interest of the Manager may result in decisions that do not fully reflect stockholders' best interests. The Company and the Manager have some common officers and directors, which may present conflicts of interest in the Company's dealings with the Manager and its affiliates, including the Company's purchase of assets originated by such affiliates. The Manager and its employees may engage in other business activities that could reduce the time and effort spent on the management of the Company. The Manager also provides services to REITs not affiliated with the Company. As a result, there may be a conflict of interest between the operations of the Manager and its affiliates in the acquisition and disposition of commercial real estate assets. In addition, the Manager and its affiliates may from time to time purchase commercial real estate assets for their own account and may purchase or sell assets from or to the Company. For example, BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc., a subsidiary of the Manager, provides real estate equity and other real estate related products and services in a variety of strategies to its institutional investor client base. In doing so, it purchases real estate on behalf of its clients that may underlie the real estate loans and securities the Company acquires, and consequently depending on the factual circumstances involved, there may be conflicts between the Company and those clients. Such conflicts may result in decisions and allocations of commercial real estate assets by the Manager, or decisions by the Manager's affiliates, that are not in the Company's best interests. Although the Company has adopted investment guidelines, these guidelines give the Manager significant discretion in investing. The Company's investment and operating policies and the strategies that the Manager uses to implement those policies may be changed at any time without the consent of stockholders. The Company is dependent on the Manager, and the termination by the Company of its Management Agreement with the Manager could result in a termination fee. The Company's success is dependent on the Manager's ability to attract and retain quality personnel. The market for portfolio managers, investment analysts, financial advisers and other professionals is extremely competitive. There can be no assurance the Manager will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager provides for base management fees payable to the Manager without consideration of the performance of the Company's portfolio and also provides for incentive fees based on certain performance criteria, which could result in the Manager recommending riskier or more speculative investments. Termination of the Management Agreement by the Company would result in the payment of a substantial termination fee, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition. Termination of the Management Agreement could also adversely affect the Company if the Company were unable to find a suitable replacement. 18 There is a limitation on the liability of the Manager. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for under the Management Agreement and is not responsible for any action of the Company's Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. The Manager and its directors and officers will not be liable to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, its unaffiliated directors, its stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders for acts performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement. The Company has agreed to indemnify the Manager and its directors and officers with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of the Manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement. The Company may change its investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. The Company may change its investment and operational policies, including the Company's policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of the Company's stockholders, which could result in the Company making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in the Company investment strategy may increase the Company's exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the Company's ability to make distributions. Risks related to the Company's business If the Company's lenders terminate or fail to renew any of its credit facilities or repurchase agreements, the Company may not be able to continue to fund its business. At December 31, 2007, borrowings under the Company's credit facilities totaled $671,000. These facilities contain various representations and warranties, covenants, conditions and events of default that if breached, not satisfied, or triggered could result in termination of the facilities. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to extend the term of any of its existing financing arrangements or obtain sufficient funds to repay any amounts outstanding under any financing arrangement before it expires, either from one or more replacement financing arrangements or an alternative debt or equity financing. Consequently, if one or more of these facilities were to terminate prior to its expected maturity date or if any such facility were not renewed, the Company's liquidity position could be materially adversely affected, and it may not be able to satisfy its outstanding loan commitments, originate new loans or continue to fund its operations. The Company's liquidity position could be adversely affected if it were unable to complete additional CDOs on favorable terms or at all. 19 The Company has completed several CDOs through which it raised a significant amount of debt capital. Relevant considerations regarding the Company's ability to complete additional term debt transactions include: · to the extent that the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular, suffer disruptions, the Company may be unable to complete CDOs; · disruptions in the credit quality and performance of the Company's commercial real estate securities and loan portfolio, particularly that portion which previously has been securitized and serves as collateral for existing CDOs, could reduce or eliminate investor demand for its CDOs in the future; · any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in the Company's CDOs would reduce demand for additional term debt by it; and · structural changes imposed by rating agencies or investors may reduce the leverage it is able to obtain, increase the cost and otherwise adversely affect the efficiency of its CDOs. If the Company is unable to continue completing these CDO transactions on favorable terms or at all, its ability to obtain the capital needed would be adversely affected. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company's growth and its Common Stock price. The Company's repurchase agreements and its CDO financing agreements may limit its ability to make investments. In order to borrow money to make investments under the Company's repurchase agreements, its lenders have the right to review the potential investment for which the Company is seeking financing. The Company may be unable to obtain the consent of its lenders to make investments that it believes are favorable to the Company. If the Company's lenders do not consent to the inclusion of the potential asset in a repurchase facility, the Company may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. The Company's lender's consent rights with respect to its repurchase agreements may limit its ability to execute its business plan. Each CDO financing in which the Company engages will contain certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that it seeks to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral as set forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, the Company may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to the Company's CDOs may limit its ability to execute its business plan. Interest rate fluctuations will affect the value of the Company's commercial real estate assets and may adversely affect the Company's net income and the price of its Common Stock. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors. Interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect the income and value of the Company's Common Stock in many ways and present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates, variances in the yield curve, changes in prepayment rates and margin calls. 20 The Company's operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from its assets (net of credit losses) and borrowing costs. The Company funds a substantial portion of its assets with borrowings that have interest rates that reset relatively rapidly, such as monthly or quarterly. The Company anticipates that, in most cases, the income from its floating-rate assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of borrowings, creating a potential mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence the Company's net income. Increases in these rates tend to decrease the Company's net income and estimated fair value of the Company's net assets. Interest rate fluctuations that result in the Company's interest expense exceeding interest income would result in the Company incurring operating losses. The Company also invests in fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities. In a period of rising interest rates, the Company's interest payments could increase while the interest the Company earns on its fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change. This would adversely affect the Company's profitability. The relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates often is referred to as the "yield curve." Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than long-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to long-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), the Company's borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on the Company's assets. Because the Company's borrowings primarily will bear interest at short-term rates and the Company's assets primarily will bear interest at medium-term to long-term rates, a flattening of the yield curve tends to decrease the Company's net income and estimated fair value of the Company's net assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from long-term assets that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields of the new assets and available borrowing rates may decline and also may tend to decrease the net income and estimated fair value of the Company's net assets. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may adjust relative to long-term interest rates such that the level of short-term rates exceeds the level of long-term rates (a yield curve inversion). In this case, the Company's borrowing costs may exceed the Company's interest income and operating losses could be incurred. A portion of the Company's commercial real estate assets are financed under reverse repurchase agreements and committed borrowing facilities which are subject to mark-to-market risk. Such secured financing arrangements provide for an advance rate based upon a percentage of the estimated fair value of the asset being financed. Market movements that cause asset values to decline could require a margin call or a cash payment to maintain the relationship between asset value and amount borrowed. The Company's investments may be subject to impairment charges. The Company periodically evaluates its investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on a variety of factors depending on the nature of the investment and the manner in which the income related to such investment is calculated for purposes of the Company's financial statements. If the Company determines that a significant impairment has occurred, the Company would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the investment, which could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations in the applicable period. 21 Some of the Company's investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by the Manager and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. Some of the Company's portfolio investments may be in the form of assets that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. The Company values these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by the Manager. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time, and may be based on estimates, the Company's determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of the Common Stock could be adversely affected if the Company's determinations regarding the fair value of these investments were materially higher than the values that the Company ultimately realizes upon their disposal. The Company's assets include subordinated CMBS and similar investments which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities. The Company's assets include a significant amount of subordinated CMBS, which are the most subordinate class of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of loans and accordingly are the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. The Company may not recover the full amount or, in extreme cases, any of its initial investment in such subordinated securities. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the class of most junior security holders. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund and letter of credit, classes of junior securities in which the Company invests may not be able to recover some or all of its investment in the securities it purchases. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage-backed securities, the securities in which it invests may incur significant losses. The estimated fair values of lower credit quality CMBS and similar investments tend to be less sensitive to interest rate changes than those of more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to changes in economic conditions and underlying borrower developments. A projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality CMBS because the ability of borrowers to make principal and interest payments on the mortgages underlying the mortgage-backed securities may be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect the Company against loss of its principal on these securities. In addition, such subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and may not provide the Company as a holder thereof with liquidity of investment. The subordinate interests in whole loans in which the Company invests may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to the Company. A subordinate interest in a whole loan is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a whole loan on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior interest secured by the same whole loan on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for subordinate interest owners after payment to the senior interest owners. Subordinate interests reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate interests can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of subordinate interests to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. The Company cannot predict the terms of each subordinate investment. Further, subordinate interests typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. Subordinate interests also are less liquid than CMBS, thus the Company may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with its subordinate position in these investments could subject the Company to increased risk of losses. 22 The Company's ownership of non-investment grade commercial real estate assets subjects it to an increased risk of loss which could adversely affect yields on its investments. The Company acquires commercial real estate loans and non-investment grade mortgage-backed securities, which are subject to greater risk of credit loss on principal and non-payment of interest than investments in senior investment grade securities. The commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans the Company originates or acquires and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which the Company invests are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to the Company. The Company's commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values and declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, and acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. The Company's assets include mezzanine loans that have greater risks of loss than more senior loans. The Company's assets include a significant amount of mezzanine loans that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans. In particular, a foreclosure by the holder of the senior loan could result in the mezzanine loan becoming unsecured. Accordingly, the Company may not recover some or all of its investment in such a mezzanine loan. Additionally, the Company may permit higher loan-to-value ratios on mezzanine loans than it would on conventional mortgage loans when the Company is entitled to share in the appreciation in value of the property securing the loan. Prepayment rates can increase which would adversely affect yields on the Company's investments. The yield on investments in mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and thus the value of the Company's Common Stock is sensitive to not only changes in prevailing interest rates but also changes in prepayment rates, which results in a divergence between the Company's borrowing rates and asset yields, consequently reducing future net income derived from the Company's investments. The Company's borrowing costs also may exceed its interest income from its investments, and it could incur operating losses. 23 Limited recourse loans limit the Company's recovery to the value of the mortgaged property. A substantial portion of the commercial mortgage loans the Company acquires may contain limitations on the mortgagee's recourse against the borrower. In other cases, the mortgagee's recourse against the borrower is limited by applicable provisions of the laws of the jurisdictions in which the mortgaged properties are located or by the mortgagee's selection of remedies and the impact of those laws on that selection. In those cases, in the event of a borrower default, recourse may be limited to only the specific mortgaged property and other assets, if any, pledged to secure the relevant commercial mortgage loan. As to those commercial mortgage loans that provide for recourse against the borrower and their assets generally, such recourse may not provide a recovery in respect of a defaulted commercial mortgage loan equal to the liquidation value of the mortgaged property securing that commercial mortgage loan. The volatility of certain mortgaged property values may adversely affect the Company's commercial mortgage loans. Commercial and multifamily property values and net operating income derived from them are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be adversely affected by plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; perceptions by prospective tenants, retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience, services and attractiveness of the property; the willingness and ability of the property's owner to provide capable management and adequate maintenance; construction quality, age and design; demographic factors; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). Leveraging the Company's investments may increase the Company's exposure to loss. The Company leverages its investments and thereby increases the volatility of its operating results and net asset value that may result in operating or capital losses. If borrowing costs increase, or if the cash flow generated by the Company's assets decreases, the Company's use of leverage will increase the likelihood that the Company will experience reduced or negative cash flow and reduced liquidity. The Company's use of leverage also increases the risk that a decrease in the value of its assets may cause its lenders to make margin calls, which could force it to sell assets at a time when it does not wish to do so or adversely affect the Company's operating results and financial condition. The Company's investments may be illiquid and their value may decrease, which could adversely affect the Company's business. Many of the Company's assets are relatively illiquid. In addition, certain of the investments that the Company has acquired or will acquire, including interests in certain mortgage-backed securities, have not been registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition of those investments except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or otherwise in accordance with, those laws. The Company's ability to vary its portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. The estimated fair value of any of the Company's assets could decrease in the future. 24 The Company's hedging transactions can limit the Company's gains and increase the Company's exposure to losses. The Company uses hedging strategies that involve risk and that may not be successful in insulating the Company from exposure to changing interest and prepayment rates. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and the Company may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses or limit its gains. The Company may make non-U.S. dollar denominated investments and investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which subject it to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. The Company purchases mortgage-backed securities denominated in foreign currencies and also acquires interests in loans to non-U.S. companies, which may expose the Company to risks not typically associated with U.S. or U.S. dollar denominated investments. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, multiple and conflicting tax laws, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards, and greater price volatility. Any of these risks could adversely affect the Company's receipt of interest income from these investments. To the extent that any of the Company's investments are denominated in foreign currency, these non-U.S. dollar denominated investments will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. Although the Company may employ hedging techniques to minimize foreign currency risk, it can offer no assurance that these strategies will be effective and may incur losses on these investments as a result of currency rate fluctuations. The Company's ability to grow its business depends on its ability to obtain external financing. To qualify as a REIT, the Company generally must distribute to its stockholders 90% of its REIT taxable income, including taxable income where the Company does not receive corresponding cash. The Company historically has obtained the cash required for its operations through the issuance of equity, convertible debentures and subordinated debt, and by borrowing money through credit facilities, securitization transactions and repurchase agreements. The Company's continued access to these and other types of external capital depends upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market's perception of its growth potential, its current and potential future earnings, cash distributions, and the market price of its Common Stock. The Company cannot assure investors that sufficient funding or capital will be available to it in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Company. If the Company cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of its Common Stock and its ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. 25 The Company is subject to significant competition. The Company is subject to significant competition in seeking investments. It competes with other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies and other investors, including funds and companies affiliated with the Manager. Some of its competitors have greater resources than it has and it may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Competition for investments may lead to the returns available from such investments decreasing which may further limit its ability to generate its desired returns. The Company cannot assure you that additional companies will not be formed that compete with it for investments or otherwise pursue investment strategies similar to the Company's. Adverse changes in general economic conditions can adversely affect the Company's business. The Company's success is dependent on the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which a substantial number of its investments are located. Adverse changes in national economic conditions or in the economic conditions of the regions in which it conducts substantial business likely would have an adverse effect on real estate values and, accordingly, the Company's financial performance, the market prices of its securities and its ability to pay dividends. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although the Company maintains reserves for credit losses and an allowance for doubtful accounts in amounts that it believe are sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in its portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. Maintenance of the Company's Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on its operations. Failure to maintain its Investment Company Act exemption could adversely affect the Company's ability to operate. The Company intends to continue to conduct its business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Under the Investment Company Act, a non-exempt entity that is an investment company is required to register with the SEC and is subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are "primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate" ("Qualifying Interests"). Under current interpretation by the staff of the SEC, to qualify for this exemption, the Company, among other things, must maintain at least 55% of its assets in Qualifying Interests. A portion of the CMBS acquired by the Company are collateralized by pools of first mortgage loans where the terms of the CMBS owned by it provide the right to monitor the performance of the underlying mortgage loans through loan management and servicing rights and the right to control workout/foreclosure rights in the event of default on the underlying mortgage loans. When such rights exist, the Company believes that the related Controlling Class CMBS constitute Qualifying Interests for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Therefore, the Company believes that it should not be required to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act as long as it continues to invest in a sufficient amount of such Controlling Class CMBS and/or in other Qualifying Interests. 26 If the SEC or its staff were to take a different position with respect to whether the Company's Controlling Class CMBS constitute Qualifying Interests, the Company could be required to modify its business plan so that either (i) it would not be required to register as an investment company or (ii) it would register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Modification of the Company's business plan so that it would not be required to register as an investment company might entail a disposition of a significant portion of its Controlling Class CMBS or the acquisition of significant additional assets, such as agency pass-through and other mortgage-backed securities, which are Qualifying Interests. Modification of its business plan to register as an investment company could result in increased operating expenses and could entail reducing indebtedness, which also could require the Company to sell a significant portion of its assets. No assurances can be given that any such dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or de-leveraging, could be accomplished on favorable terms. Consequently, any such modification of the Company's business plan could have a material adverse effect. Further, if it were established that the Company were operating as an unregistered investment company, there would be a risk that it would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC, that it would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period it was established that the Company was an unregistered investment company. Any such result would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company may become subject to environmental liabilities. The Company may become subject to material environmental risks when it acquires interests in properties with significant environmental problems. Such environmental risks include the risk that operating costs and values of these assets may be adversely affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation. Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knows of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous substances could exceed the value of the property. The Company's income and ability to make distributions to stockholders could be affected adversely by the existence of an environmental liability with respect to the Company's properties. The price of the Company's Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect holders of its Common Stock. The trading price of the Company's Common Stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in the Company's quarterly financial results or dividends, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, additions or departures of key management personnel, prevailing interest rates, issuances of the Company's Common Stock, preferred stock or debt securities, and changes in market valuations of other companies in the real estate industry, even if not similar to the Company. In addition, the Company's financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of its Common Stock could decrease significantly. In addition, the U.S. securities markets or sectors of these markets from time to time have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets or sectors. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the price of the Company's Common Stock, regardless of its operating performance. 27 Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to the Company's Common Stock upon its liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, including preferred stock senior to the Company's Common Stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock. The Company may from time to time offer additional debt or equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company's debt securities and shares of its preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of the Company's available assets prior to the holders of its Common Stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company's existing stockholders and reduce the market price of its Common Stock. Any preferred stock the Company issues may have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit its ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of its Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of the Company's Common Stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of its Common Stock. Holders of the Company's Common Stock bear the risk of its future offerings causing the market price of its Common Stock to decline and diluting their stock holdings in the Company. The Company's staggered board of directors and other provisions of its charter and bylaws may prevent a change in its control, which could adversely affect the price of the Company's Common Stock. The Company's board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the directors expire in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Directors of each class serve three-year terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of the Company's directors may delay, prevent or reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though the Company's stockholders might consider a tender offer or change in control in their best interests. In addition, the Company's charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of its stockholders. See "—Restrictions on ownership of the Company's Common Stock may inhibit market activity in the Company's Common Stock and restrict its business combination opportunities." Risks Relating to Taxation as a REIT The Company's failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to its stockholders. The Company operates in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The Company's ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon its analysis of the fair market values of its assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which it will not obtain independent appraisals. The Company's compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon its ability to successfully manage the composition of its income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes, and the tax treatment of participation interests that the Company holds in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will not contend that the Company's interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by the Company in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Company's stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, its stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, the Company also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT. 28 If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, the Company might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to the Company's stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code to the Company's operations and the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company's control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although the Company believes that it operates in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, the Company may not be able to remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax law could adversely affect the Company's stockholders. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect the Company's ability to execute its business plan. The Company generally must distribute annually at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that it distributes. The Company intends to make distributions to its stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require the Company to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code. Certain of the Company's assets may generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of its net taxable income could cause the Company to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. If the Company fails to obtain debt or equity capital in the future, it could limit its ability to grow or continue operations, which could adversely affect the value of its Common Stock. Restrictions on ownership of the Company's Common Stock may inhibit market activity in the Company's stock and restrict its business combination opportunities. In order for the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code) at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To facilitate its meeting the requirements for qualification as a REIT at all times, the Company's charter generally prohibits any person from acquiring or holding, directly or indirectly, shares of capital stock in excess of 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of any class of its capital stock. The Company's charter further prohibits (i) any person from beneficially or constructively owning shares of capital stock that would result in the Company being "closely held" under Section 856(h) of the Code or would otherwise cause the Company to fail to qualify as a REIT, and (ii) any person from transferring shares of capital stock if such transfer would result in shares of capital stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons. If any transfer of shares of capital stock occurs which, if effective, would result in a violation of one or more ownership limitations, then that number of shares of capital stock, the beneficial or constructive ownership of which otherwise would cause such person to violate such limitations (rounded to the nearest whole share) shall be automatically transferred to a trustee of a trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more charitable beneficiaries, and the intended transferee may not acquire any rights in such shares; provided, however, that if any transfer occurs which, if effective, would result in shares of capital stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons, then the transfer shall be null and void and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights to the stock. Subject to certain limitations, the Company's board of directors may waive the limitations for certain investors. 29 The Company's authorized capital stock includes preferred stock issuable in one or more series. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making an attempt to gain control of the Company by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise more difficult. The currently outstanding preferred stock has a preference on dividend payments that could affect the Company's ability to make dividend distributions to the common stockholders. The provisions of the Company's charter or relevant Maryland law may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for the holders of its Common Stock to receive a premium for their Common Stock that might otherwise exist in the absence of such provisions. Such provisions also may make the Company an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain ownership of more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of its Common Stock. Material provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law ("MGCL") relating to "business combinations" and a "control share acquisition" and of the Company's charter and bylaws may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a takeover attempt or other change in control of the Company that would be beneficial to stockholders and might otherwise result in a premium over then prevailing market prices. Although the Company's bylaws contain a provision exempting the acquisition of its Common Stock by any person from the control share acquisition statute, there can be no assurance that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in its control that might involve a premium price for its Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. Even if the Company remains qualified as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow. Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to its stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, the Company may hold some of its assets through taxable REIT subsidiaries. Such subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. 30 Complying with REIT requirements may cause the Company to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. The Company also may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when it does not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company's ability to make certain attractive investments. The "taxable mortgage pool" rules may increase the taxes that the Company or its stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which it effects future securitizations. Certain of the Company's securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as the Company owns 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, it generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from the Company that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that the Company's stock is owned by tax-exempt "disqualified organizations," such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, it may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of its income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, the Company may reduce the amount of its distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 