ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing MicroStrategy. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our quarterly operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock For a number of reasons, including those described below, our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our class A common stock. 19 Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, in part, as a result of: • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments; • the mix of products and services of customer orders, which can affect whether we recognize revenue upon the signing and delivery of our software products or whether revenue must be recognized as work progresses or over the entire contract period; • the timing of new product announcements by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of business intelligence software generally and of new and enhanced versions of our products in particular; • the length of our sales cycles; • seasonal factors, such as our traditionally lower pace of new license transactions in the summer; • changes in our operating expenses; • personnel changes; • our use of direct and indirect distribution channels; • utilization of our consulting and education services, which can be affected by delays or deferrals of customer implementation of our software products; • the quarterly performances of our Alarm.com and Angel.com business units, which are highly variable and particularly difficult to forecast; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • our profitability and expectations for future profitability and its effect on our deferred tax assets and net income for the period in which any adjustment to our net deferred tax asset valuation allowance may be made; • increases or decreases in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits under FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”; and • changes in customer budgets. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. Many of our expenses, such as office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our class A common stock may fall. The trading price for our class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile The trading price of our class A common stock historically has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our class A common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; 20 • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • any major change in our board or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the likelihood of which may be enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance relating to our anticipated financial performance in future periods; • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • the volume of shares of class A common stock available for public sale; • sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving shares of our class A common stock; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Revenue recognition accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported results of operations We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements. Depending upon the outcome of these ongoing reviews and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings that are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and earnings that are higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, as a multinational business, we have subsidiaries that engage in many intercompany transactions in a variety of tax jurisdictions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We also have contingent tax liabilities that, in management’s judgment, are not probable of assertion. If such unasserted contingent liabilities were to be asserted, or become probable of assertion, we may be required to record significant expenses and liabilities in the period in which these liabilities are asserted or become probable of assertion. 21 As a result of these and other factors, the ultimate amount of tax obligations owed may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and any such difference may materially affect our financial results in future periods in which we change our estimates of our tax obligations or in which the ultimate tax outcome is determined. If the market for business intelligence software fails to grow as we expect, or if businesses fail to adopt our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Nearly all of our revenues to date have come from sales of business intelligence software and related technical support, consulting and education services. We expect these sales to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Although demand for business intelligence software has grown in recent years, the market for business intelligence software applications is still evolving. Resistance from consumer and privacy groups to increased commercial collection and use of data on spending patterns and other personal behavior and European and other governmental restrictions on the collection and use of personal data may impair the further growth of this market, as may other developments. We cannot be sure that this market will continue to grow or, even if it does grow, that businesses will adopt our solutions. We have spent, and intend to keep spending, considerable resources to educate potential customers about business intelligence software in general and our solutions in particular. However, we cannot be sure that these expenditures will help our products achieve any additional market acceptance. If the market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently expect, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition, which may lead to lower prices for our products, reduced gross margins, loss of market share and reduced revenue The markets for business intelligence software, analytical applications and information delivery are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, many companies in these markets are offering, or may soon offer, products and services that may compete with MicroStrategy products. MicroStrategy faces competitors in several broad categories, including business intelligence software, analytical processes, query and web-based reporting tools, and report delivery. Independent competitors that are primarily focused on business intelligence products include, among others, Actuate, Information Builders and the SAS Institute. We also compete with large software corporations, including suppliers of enterprise resource planning software that provide one or more capabilities competitive with our products, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP AG, Infor and others, and with open source business intelligence vendors, including Pentaho, JasperSoft and others. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business intelligence industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to meet the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. For example, Oracle acquired Hyperion Solutions in April 2007, IBM acquired Cognos in January 2008 and SAP acquired Business Objects in January 2008. By doing so, these competitors may increase their ability to meet the needs of our potential customers. Our current or prospective indirect channel partners may establish cooperative relationships with our current or future competitors. These relationships may limit our ability to sell our products through specific distribution channels. Accordingly, new 22 competitors or alliances among current and future competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain technical support revenues from our installed customer base. We depend on revenue from a single suite of products Our MicroStrategy 8 suite of products accounts for a substantial portion of our revenue. Because of this revenue concentration, our business could be harmed by a decline in demand for, or in the prices of, our MicroStrategy 8 software as a result of, among other factors, any change in our pricing model, increased competition, a maturation in the markets for these products or other risks described in this document. Business disruptions could affect our operating results A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a single facility in northern Virginia. We are also a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major earthquake, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We use strategic channel partners and if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected In addition to our direct sales force, we use strategic channel partners such as value-added resellers, system integrators and original equipment manufacturers to license and support our products. For the year ended December 31, 2007, transactions by channel partners for which we recognized revenues accounted for 10.7%, of our total product licenses revenues. Our channel partners generally offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. Because our channel partners generally do not have an exclusive relationship with us, we cannot be certain that they will prioritize or provide adequate resources to selling our products. Moreover, divergence in strategy or contract defaults by any of these channel partners may materially adversely affect our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products. Although we believe that direct sales will continue to account for a majority of product licenses revenues, we seek to maintain a significant level of indirect sales activities through our strategic channel partners. There can be no assurance that our strategic partners will continue to cooperate with us when our distribution agreements expire or are up for renewal. In addition, there can be no assurance that actions taken or omitted to be taken by such parties will not adversely affect us. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our strategic partners. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these strategic partners, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we rely on our strategic channel partners to operate in accordance with the terms of their contractual agreements with us. For example, our agreements with our channel partners limit the terms and conditions pursuant to which they are authorized to resell or distribute our software and offer technical support and related services. We also typically require our channel partners to represent to us the dates and details of product license transactions sold through to end user customers. If our strategic channel partners do not comply with their contractual obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our recognition of deferred revenue and advance payments and future customer purchase commitments is subject to future performance obligations and may not be representative of revenues for succeeding periods Our gross current and long-term deferred revenue and advance payments totaled $122.4 million as of December 31, 2007. We offset our accounts receivable and deferred revenue for any billed and unpaid items, 23 which totaled $56.2 million, resulting in net deferred revenue and advance payments of $66.2 million as of December 31, 2007. The timing and ultimate recognition of our deferred revenue and advance payments depend on various factors, including our performance of various service obligations. We have also entered into certain additional agreements that include future minimum commitments by our customers to purchase products, product support or other services through 2012 totaling approximately $39.2 million. These future commitments are not included in our deferred revenue balances. Because of the possibility of customer changes or delays in customer development or implementation schedules or budgets, and the need for us to satisfactorily perform product support services, deferred revenue and advance payments at any particular date may not be representative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future We generated net income for each of the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005; however, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly or revenues fall below our expectations, we may cease to be profitable and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We have significant deferred tax assets, and if we are unable to sustain profitability, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets, which would result in a charge that would adversely affect net income in the period in which the charge is incurred. Managing our international operations is complex and our failure to do so successfully or in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition We receive a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales from foreign direct and indirect operations. International sales accounted for 36.3%, 36.3% and 38.4% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, export restrictions and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products; • lack of acceptance of localized products; • difficulties in and costs of staffing, managing and operating our international operations; • tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings; • weaker intellectual property protection; • economic weakness or currency related crises; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of laws, including labor laws; • generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • our ability to adapt to sales practices and customer requirements in different cultures; and • political instability in the countries where we are doing business. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our 24 international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand and our international expansion efforts. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may lose sales, or sales may be delayed, due to the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, which could reduce our revenues To date, our customers have typically invested substantial time, money and other resources and involved many people in the decision to license our software products and purchase our consulting and other services. As a result, we may wait nine months or more after the first contact with a customer for that customer to place an order while it seeks internal approval for the purchase of our products and/or services. During this long sales cycle, events may occur that affect the size and/or timing of the order or even cause it to be canceled. For example, our competitors may introduce new products, or the customer’s own budget and purchasing priorities may change. Even after an order is placed, the time it takes to deploy our products and complete consulting engagements can vary widely. Implementing our product can take several months, depending on the customer’s needs, and may begin only with a pilot program. It may be difficult to deploy our products if the customer has complicated deployment requirements, which typically involve integrating databases, hardware and software from different vendors. If a customer hires a third party to deploy our products, we cannot be sure that our products will be deployed successfully. Our results in any particular period may depend upon the number and volume of large transactions in that period and these transactions may involve more lengthy, complex and unpredictable sales cycles than other transactions As existing and potential customers seek to standardize on a single business intelligence vendor, our business may experience larger transactions at the enterprise level and larger transactions may account for a greater proportion of our business. The presence or absence of one or more large transactions in a particular period may have a material positive or negative effect on our revenue and operating results for that period. During 2007, our top three product license transactions totaled approximately $5.7 million in revenue recognized, compared to $10.2 million, including one transaction with $4.3 million in revenue recognized, during 2006, or 5.7% and 9.5% of total product licenses revenues during 2007 and 2006, respectively. These transactions represent significant business and financial decisions for our customers and require considerable effort on the part of customers to assess alternative products and require additional levels of management approval before being concluded. They are also often more complex than smaller transactions. These factors generally lengthen the typical sales cycle and increase the risk that the customer’s purchasing decision may be postponed or delayed from one period to another subsequent or later period or that the customer will alter his purchasing requirements. The sales effort and service delivery scope for larger transactions also require additional resources to execute the transaction. These factors could result in lower than anticipated revenue and earnings for a particular period or in the reduction of estimated revenue and earnings in future periods. A slowdown or downturn in the financial services industry could adversely affect our business and results of operations We have a significant number of customers in the financial services industry. When there is a slowdown or downturn in the financial services industry, financial services firms may react to worsening conditions by 25 reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. In addition, financial services customers may delay or cancel information technology projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Also, customers with excess information technology resources may choose to take their availability solutions in-house rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. Prior downturns in the financial services industry have seen an increase in the pace of industry consolidation, which if repeated could result in reduced overall spending on our products. If any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. We face a variety of risks in doing business with the U.S. and foreign governments, various state and local governments, and agencies, including risks related to the procurement process, budget constraints and cycles, termination of contracts and audits Our customers include the U.S. government and a number of state and local governments or agencies. There are a variety of risks in doing business with government entities, including: Procurement. Contracting with public sector customers is highly competitive and can be time-consuming and expensive, requiring that we incur significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract. Budgetary Constraints and Cycles. Demand and payment for our products and services are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability, with funding reductions or delays adversely impacting public sector demand for our products and services. Termination of Contracts. Public sector customers often have contractual or other legal rights to terminate current contracts for convenience or due to a default. If a contract is terminated for convenience, which can occur if the customer’s needs change, we may only be able to collect for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated because of default, we may not recover even those amounts, and we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services. Audits. The U.S. government and state and local governments and agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors for compliance with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contract provisions relating to the formation, administration or performance of government contracts, including provisions governing reports of and remittances of fees based on sales under government contracts, price protection, compliance with socio-economic policies, and other terms that are particular to government contracts. If, as a result of an audit or review, it is determined that we have failed to comply with such laws, regulations or contract provisions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, and we may suffer harm to our reputation. Our customers also include a number of foreign governments and agencies. Similar procurement, budgetary, contract and audit risks also apply to our doing business with these entities. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could impair our software, delay implementation of our products or force us to pay higher license fees We license third-party technologies that we incorporate into our existing products. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to 26 license third-party software for future products. In addition, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms. Changes in or the loss of third party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing or to our software products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced, with the result that we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products, and we may experience a decreased demand for our products. If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel, particularly Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sanju K. Bansal, our Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. If we lose the services of one or both of these individuals or other key personnel, or if we are unable to attract, train, assimilate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and release product enhancements and new products to respond to rapid technological change in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changing customer demands and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies can quickly make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We believe that our future success depends largely on three factors: • our ability to continue to support a number of popular operating systems and databases; • our ability to maintain and improve our current product line; and • our ability to rapidly develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Business intelligence applications are inherently complex, and it can take a long time and require significant research and development expenditures to develop and test new products and product enhancements. In addition, customers may delay their purchasing decisions because they anticipate that new or enhanced versions of our products will soon become available. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change or new customer requirements, nor can we be sure that any new products and product enhancements will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, even if we introduce such a product, we may experience a decline in revenues of our existing products that is not fully matched by the new product’s revenue. For example, customers may delay making purchases of a new product to permit them to make a more thorough evaluation of the product, or until industry and marketplace reviews become widely available. Some customers may hesitate migrating to a new product due to concerns regarding the complexity of migration and product infancy issues on performance. In addition, we may lose existing customers who choose a competitor’s product rather than migrate to our new product. This could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and materially affect our business. The emergence of new industry standards may adversely affect the demand for our existing products The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our existing products. This could happen, for example, if new web standards and technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our products. MicroStrategy currently supports SQL and MDX standards in database access technology. If we are unable to adapt our products on a timely basis to new 27 standards in database access technology, the ability of MicroStrategy’s products to access customer databases could be impaired. In addition, the emergence of new standards in the field of operating system support could adversely affect the demand for our existing products. MicroStrategy technology is currently compatible with nearly all major operating systems, including, among others, Windows Server, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HP’s HP-UX, Red Hat Linux AS and SuSE Linux Enterprise Server. If a different operating system were to gain widespread acceptance, we may not be able to achieve compatibility on a timely basis, resulting in an adverse effect on the demand for our products. The nature of our products makes them particularly vulnerable to undetected errors, or bugs, which could cause problems with how the products perform and which could in turn reduce demand for our products, reduce our revenue and lead to product liability claims against us Software products as complex as ours may contain errors and/or defects. Although we test our products extensively, we have in the past discovered software errors in our products after their introduction. Despite testing by us and by our current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after commercial shipments begin. This could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation or delays in market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also have to expend resources and capital to correct these defects. Our license agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability, warranty and other claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain domestic or international jurisdictions and we may be exposed to product liability, warranty and other claims. A successful product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, and the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling certain of our products; 28 • require us to redesign certain of our products using alternative non-infringing technology or practices, which could require significant effort and expense; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. For example on November 8, 2007 Diagnostic Systems Corp. (DSC), a subsidiary of Acacia Technology Group, filed a complaint for patent infringement against MicroStrategy and a number of other unrelated defendants in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Southern Division. The case has been consolidated with Case No. SA CV 07-896 AG (MLGx) pending against other unrelated defendants. The consolidated complaint accuses MicroStrategy of infringing U.S. Patent No. 5,537,590 directly, contributorily and by inducement by making, using, selling and offering for sale in the United States MicroStrategy 8 Business Intelligence Platform, when used with an appropriate database. The consolidated complaint accuses MicroStrategy of willful infringement and seeks damages, a finding that the case is exceptional and an award of attorneys fees, and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. In its initial disclosures pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(a) served on December 28, 2007, DSC declined to disclose the amount of its alleged damages, but disclosed that its alleged damages are based on a reasonable royalty theory. MicroStrategy answered the consolidated complaint on December 28, 2007, denied infringement, asserted affirmative defenses of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability, among others, and counter-claimed for declaratory judgment that the ‘590 patent is not infringed, is invalid, and is unenforceable. All of the involved parties are proposing a trial date of March 31, 2009. The outcome of this litigation is not presently determinable. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition In addition to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we have been subject to other litigation. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that it is probable, we record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the related cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources. We could face liability claims relating to Alarm.com products and services and these claims could result in significant costs and liabilities Our Alarm.com subsidiary provides web-enabled security and activity monitoring technology. We face exposure to liability claims in the event that any Alarm.com product or service results in personal injury or property damage. Although we maintain insurance policies to provide certain coverage for general liability claims, such insurance may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us and such coverage may not be adequate for liabilities actually incurred. In addition, in the event that any Alarm.com product or service is proved to be defective, we may be required to recall or redesign such products or services, which could result in significant unexpected costs. Any liability claim or product recall could result in harm to our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on the operations of our Alarm.com business The operations of our Alarm.com subsidiary may become subject to certain federal, state, and local regulations and licensing requirements. Many jurisdictions have licensing laws directed specifically toward the 29 home alarm and monitoring industry. We believe that the products and services provided by our Alarm.com subsidiary do not require certain licenses or permits required of traditional providers of home protection and monitoring services. If laws, regulations or licensing requirements in the jurisdictions in which Alarm.com operates were to change or if existing laws, regulations and licensing requirements were to be construed to require Alarm.com to obtain licenses or permits to provide its products and services, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations, or we may become subject to adverse regulatory action, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the business and operating results of our Alarm.com business. Our Alarm.com subsidiary relies on third-party manufacturers to produce and assemble its products. If these manufacturers experience an interruption in their operations or are otherwise unable to successfully deliver the products to meet our production demands, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected We have outsourced the production and assembly of our Alarm.com products to third-party manufacturers. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturers could materially adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled deliveries to customers and business partners. In addition, these manufacturing facilities may not be able to increase production on a timely basis, or on terms acceptable to us, to keep up with the requirements of the Alarm.com business. As a result, we may not be able to satisfy customer orders or contractual commitments, leading to the termination of one or more of our contracts or resulting in litigation against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. Alternative manufacturers may be difficult to find on terms acceptable to us or in a timely manner. Because of the rights of our two classes of common stock, and because we are controlled by our existing holders of class B common stock, these stockholders could transfer control of MicroStrategy to a third party without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, prevent a third party from acquiring MicroStrategy, or limit your ability to influence corporate matters We have two classes of common stock: class A common stock and class B common stock. Holders of our class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of our class B common stock, except that holders of class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of class B common stock have ten votes per share. As of February 1, 2008, holders of our class B common stock owned 2,770,244 shares of class B common stock, or 75.1% of the total voting power. Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 399,800 shares of class A common stock and 2,429,582 shares of class B common stock, or 66.2% of the total voting power, as of February 1, 2008. Accordingly, Mr. Saylor is able to control MicroStrategy through his ability to determine the outcome of elections of our directors, amend our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and take other actions requiring the vote or consent of stockholders, including mergers, going-private transactions and other extraordinary transactions and their terms. Our certificate of incorporation allows holders of class B common stock, all of whom are current employees or directors of our company or related parties, to transfer shares of class B common stock, subject to the approval of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock could, without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, transfer voting control of MicroStrategy to a third party. Such a transfer of control could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock will also be able to prevent a change of control of MicroStrategy, regardless of whether holders of class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. In addition, this concentrated control limits stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our non-controlling stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock could be adversely affected. 30 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 