Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business Inability or delayed execution on our strategy to be a leading provider of semiconductor IP could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our product portfolio includes embedded SRAMs, embedded NVMs, embedded test and repair, logic libraries, memory development software and DDR memory controller subsystems. If our strategy to be a broad line provider of semiconductor IP is not widely accepted by potential customers or acceptance is delayed for any reason, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our profitability could also be adversely affected due to investment of resources directed to the development and/or acquisition of additional semiconductor IP components and due to lower than anticipated revenues from the sale of such products. Factors that could prevent us from gaining market acceptance of our semiconductor IP products include the following: • difficulties in convincing customers of our memory products to purchase other products from us; • difficulties and delays in expanding our logic and I/O product offerings; and • hurdles we may encounter in building and expanding customer relationships. We may have difficulty sustaining profitability and may experience additional losses in the future. We recorded net income of $554,000 for fiscal 2008 and net loss of $4.6 million for fiscal 2007. In order to continue to improve our profitability, we will need to continue to generate new sales while controlling our expenses. Any failure to increase our revenues and control costs as we pursue our planned growth would harm our profitability and would likely negatively affect the market price of our stock. In addition, if we incurred losses for a sustained period we may be prevented from being able to fully utilize our deferred tax assets which would result in the need for a valuation allowance to be recorded. In addition, general economic trends at present including the worldwide economic slowdown and tightening of the credit markets may impact the businesses of our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue growth expectations and our financial condition and results of operations. We intend to continue to engage in acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions that may complement or expand our business. We may not be able to complete such transactions and such transactions, if executed, pose significant risks and could have a negative effect on our operations. In each of fiscal 2007 and 2008 we made small acquisitions and concurrently hired a number of employees who provided services relevant to the business or assets acquired and we regularly consider other acquisition opportunities. Achievement of our business goals may be dependent on opportunities to buy other businesses or 18 Table of Contents technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may not be able to complete such transactions for a variety of reasons, including our inability to structure appropriate financing for larger transactions. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including the following: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or technology; • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; and • our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. Moreover, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing relationships and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of such integration may be increased by the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations and the complexity of the technologies being integrated. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transactions. The inability of management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. If we are unable to continue establishing relationships on favorable contractual terms with semiconductor companies to license our IP, our business will be harmed. We rely on license fees from the sale of perpetual and term licenses to generate a large portion of our revenues. These licenses produce streams of revenue in the periods in which the license fees are recognized, but are not necessarily indicative of a commensurate level of revenue from the same customers in future periods. In addition, our agreements with our customers do not obligate them to license new or future generations of our IP. As a result, the growth of our business depends significantly on our ability to expand our business with existing customers and attract new customers. We face numerous challenges in entering into license agreements with semiconductor companies on terms beneficial to our business, including the following: • the lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with potential customers; • competition with the customers’ internal design teams and other providers of semiconductor IP as our customers may evaluate these alternatives for each design; and • the need to persuade semiconductor companies to rely on us for critical technology. These factors may make it difficult for us to maintain our current relationships or establish new relationships with additional customers. Further, there are a finite number of fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers to which we can license our IP. If we are unable to establish and maintain these relationships, we will be unable to generate license fees, and our revenues will decrease. If we are unable to maintain existing relationships and/or develop new relationships with pure-play semiconductor manufacturers or foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies on their processes and license our IP to them or their customers and our business will be harmed. Our ability to verify our technologies for new manufacturing processes depends on entering into development agreements with pure-play foundries to provide us with access to these processes. In addition, we rely on pure-play foundries to manufacture our silicon test chips, to provide referrals to their customer base and 19 Table of Contents to help define the focus of our research and development activities. We currently have foundry agreements with Chartered, Dongbu HiTek, SilTerra, SMIC, TSMC, and UMC. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships with these foundries or enter into new agreements with other foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies for their manufacturing processes and our ability to develop products for emerging technologies will be hampered. As of consequence, we would be unable to license our IP to fabless semiconductor companies that use these foundries to manufacture their silicon chips, which is a significant source of our revenues. We must appropriately manage our relationships with foundries and other strategic partners in order to effectively execute on our business strategy. In relying on pure-play manufacturing relationships and/our other strategic alliances, we face the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that may be higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing partners to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • decline in product reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our pure-play manufacturers due to competition or market consolidation; and • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages. If any of these risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our royalty revenues, our revenues and profitability may not grow as desired. We have agreements with pure-play semiconductor foundries to pay us royalties on their sales of silicon chips they manufacture for our fabless customers. Beginning with our STAR™ Memory System and more recently with the introduction of our NOVeA® technology, in addition to collecting royalties from pure-play semiconductor foundries, we intend to increase our royalty base by collecting royalties directly from our integrated device manufacturer and fabless customers. However, we may not be successful in convincing all customers to agree to pay us royalties. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, we recorded royalty revenues of approximately $12.1 million in each year. The growth of our revenues depends in part on increasing our royalty revenues, but we may not be successful in increasing our royalty revenues as expected and we face difficulties in forecasting our royalty revenues because of many factors beyond our control, such as fluctuating sales volumes of products that incorporate our IP, short or unpredictable product life cycles for some customer products containing our IP, potential slow down for manufacturing of certain newer process technology, foundry rate adjustments, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry that affects the number of designs, commercial acceptance of these products, accuracy of revenue reports received from our customers and difficulties in the royalty collection process. In addition, occasionally we have completed agreements whereby significant upfront license fees are reduced or limited in exchange for higher royalty rates, which should result in future royalty revenues, but these royalty arrangements may not provide us with the anticipated benefits as sales of products incorporating our IP may not offset lower license fees. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing arrangements. The standard terms of our license agreements require our customers to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. While standard license terms give us the right to audit the books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be 20 Table of Contents expensive, time consuming and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our customers. Our inability to audit all of our customers’ books and records may result in us receiving more or less royalty revenue than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. The results of such audits could also result in an increase, as a result of a customers’ underpayment, or decrease, as a result of a customers’ overpayment, to royalty revenues. Such adjustments, as a result of the audit, are recorded in the period they are determined. Any adverse material adjustments resulting from royalty audits may cause our revenues and operating results to be below market expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The royalty audit may also trigger disagreements over contractual terms with our customers and such disagreements could adversely affect customer relationship, divert the efforts and attention of our management from normal operations and impact our business operations. We may be unable to deliver our customized memory, logic and I/O products in the time-frame demanded by our customers, which could damage our reputation and future sales. A portion of our agreements require us to provide customized products to our customers within a specified delivery timetable. While we have experienced delays in delivering products to our customers, the durations of these delays have typically been short in length so as to not materially damage our relationship with our customers. However, these delays could adversely impact our operations and our financial performance. Future failures to meet significant customer milestones could damage our reputation in our industry and harm our ability to attract new customers. We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. It can take a significant amount of time and effort to negotiate a sale. Typically, it generally takes at least three to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we start licensing our IP to that customer. In addition, purchase of our products is usually made in connection with new design starts, the timing of which is out of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, thereby foregoing other opportunities. Winning business is subject to a competitive selection process that can be lengthy and requires us to incur significant expense, and we may not be selected. Our primary focus is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ equipment. These selection processes can be lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Because we typically focus on only a few customers in a product area, the loss of a design win can sometimes result in our failure to offer a generation of a product. This can result in lost sales and could hurt our position in future competitive selection processes because we may be perceived as not being a technology leader. After winning a product design for one of our customers, we may still experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development and design cycle. In addition, a delay or cancellation of a customer’s plans could significantly adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense and generated no revenue. Finally, if our customers fail to successfully market and sell their equipment it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as the demand for our products falls. Products that do not meet customer specifications or contain material defects could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. The complexity and ongoing development of our products could lead to design or manufacturing problems. Our semiconductor IP products may fail to meet our customers’ design or technical requirements, or may contain 21 Table of Contents defects, which may cause our customers to fail to complete the design and manufacturing of their products in a timely manner. Any of these problems may harm our customers’ businesses. If any of our products fail to meet specifications or have reliability or quality problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenue, an increase in product returns and the loss of existing customers or failure to attract new customers. These problems may adversely affect customer relationships, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. As advanced process nodes become more complex we may have difficulty in delivering product specifications in similar timeframes and at comparable costs to older process nodes. The increasing complexity of our products at advanced nodes requires different customer engagements and validation strategies. Such changes require the acceptance of different business terms and schedules by our customers. They also may require an increase of test silicon for purposes of validating performance parameters. Such changes may impact our ability to acquire new customers and could increase our operating expenses. Our international operations may be adversely affected by instability in the countries in which we operate. We currently have subsidiaries or branches in Armenia, India, the United Kingdom, Israel, Germany and Japan. In addition, a significant portion of our IP is being developed in development centers located in Armenia and India. Israel continues to face a significant level of civic unrest. India is experiencing rising costs and in certain industries, intense competition for highly qualified personnel. Armenia has in recent years suffered significant political and economic instability. Accordingly, conditions in areas of the world in which we operate may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including the following: • changes in the political or economic conditions in Armenia and changes in the economic conditions in India and the surrounding region, such as fluctuations in exchange rates, changes in laws protecting IP, the imposition of currency transfer restrictions or limitations, or the adoption of burdensome trade or tax policies, procedures, rules, regulations or tariffs, changes in the demand for technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to develop new products, to take advantage of the cost savings associated with operations in Armenia and India, and to otherwise conduct business effectively in Armenia and India; • our ability to continue conducting business in Israel and other countries in the normal course may be adversely affected by increased risk of social and political instability; and • our Israeli customers’ demand for our products may be adversely affected because of negative economic consequences associated with reduced levels of safety and security in Israel. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to license our IP. Sales to customers located outside North America accounted for 50% and 54% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside North America will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future periods. In addition, most of our customers that do not own their own fabrication plants rely on pure-play foundries located outside of North America. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with doing business in international markets, including the following: • managing distributors and sales partners outside the U.S.; • staffing and managing non-U.S. branch offices and subsidiaries; • political and economic instability; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable resulting in longer collection periods; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; 22 Table of Contents • changes in tax laws and tariffs or the interpretation of such laws and tariffs; • trade protection measures that may be adopted by other countries; • compliance with, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of IP rights in some countries; • different labor standards; and • United States government licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. If these risks actually materialize, our international operations may be adversely affected and sales to international customers, as well as those domestic customers that use foreign fabrication plants, may decrease. We rely on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and our accounts receivable are concentrated among a small number of customers. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our annual revenues in each fiscal year, although the customers comprising this group have changed from time to time. We have one customer that generated more than 10% of our revenue for fiscal 2008 and 2007. The license agreements we enter into with our customers do not obligate them to license future generations of our IP and, as a result, we cannot predict if and when they will purchase additional products from us. As a result of this customer concentration, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues if we lose one or more of our significant customers and are unable to replace them. In addition, since our accounts receivable are concentrated in a relatively small number of customers, a significant change in the liquidity, financial position, or issues regarding timing of payments of any one of these customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectibility of our accounts receivable, revenues recorded and our future operating results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and the failure to meet financial expectations for any fiscal quarter may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and on an annual basis due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to vary materially from quarter to quarter include the following: • large orders unevenly spaced over time, or the cancellation or delay of orders; • pace of adoption of new technologies by customers; • timing of introduction of new products and technologies and technology enhancements by us and our competitors; • our lengthy sales cycle and fluctuations in the demand for our products and products that incorporate our IP; • constrained or deferred spending decisions by customers; • delays in new process qualification or verification; • capacity constraints at the facilities of our foundries; • inability to collect or delay in collection of receivables; • the timing and completion of milestones under customer agreements; 23 Table of Contents • the impact of competition on license revenues or royalty rates; • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the general economic environment; • consolidation, merger and acquisition activity of our customer base may cause delays or loss of sales; • the amount and timing of royalty payments; • changes in development schedules; and • R&D expenditures. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and may not be reliable as indicators of future performance. These factors make it difficult for us to accurately predict our revenues and operating results and may cause them to be below market analysts’ expectations in some quarters, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our ability to manage our business successfully in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. Our customers rely heavily on our technological expertise in designing and testing our products. Relationships with new customers may require significant engineering resources. As a result, any increase in the demand for our products will increase the requirements on our personnel, particularly our engineers. Our historical growth, international expansion, and our strategy of being the semiconductor industry’s trusted IP partner, have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant challenge on our managerial and financial resources as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Although some new controls, systems and procedures have been implemented, our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls. Our inability to manage any future growth effectively would be harmful to our revenues and profitability. We have received assessment orders from the Government of India, Income Tax Department, Office of the Director of Income Tax (Indian Tax Authorities) proposing a tax deficiency in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of the assessment or any future assessment involving similar claims may have an adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. The Indian Tax Authorities completed its assessment of our tax returns for the tax years 2001 through 2006 and issued assessment orders in which the Indian Tax Authorities proposes to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the five year period of approximately $1.0 million, net of deposits of $260,000 as required by the Indian Tax Authorities. Interest will continue to accrue until the matter is resolved. The assessment orders are not final notices of deficiency, and we have immediately filed appeals to the appellate tax authorities. We believe that the assessments are inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defense to the assessments. However, the ultimate outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, including the amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of the matter. Should the Indian Tax Authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future assessment, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have an adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel who are critical to the success of our business. We believe our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and senior managers. In addition, in order to grow our business we must increase our sales force, both domestic and international, with qualified employees. Hiring qualified technical, sales and management personnel is difficult due to a limited number of qualified professionals and competition in our industry for these 24 Table of Contents types of employees. We have in the past experienced delays and difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel and believe that at times our employees are recruited aggressively by our competitors and start-up companies. Our employees are “at will” and may leave our employment at any time, and under certain circumstances, start-up companies can offer more attractive equity incentives than we offer. As a result, we may experience significant employee turnover. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel would make it difficult for us to develop and market our technologies. We may need additional capital that may not be available to us and, if raised, may dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest in us. We may need to raise additional funds to fund growth of our business and any acquisitions we may pursue, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary products or technologies. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership of our stockholders would be diluted and these securities might have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Risk Related to Our Industry We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life-cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. We have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience such downturns in the future. We may not be able to manage these downturns. Any future downturns of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP does not increase, our business may be harmed. Our business and the adoption and continued use of our IP by semiconductor companies depends on continued demand for products requiring complex semiconductors, embedded memories and logic elements, such as cellular and digital phones, pagers, PDAs, digital cameras, DVD players, switches and modems. The demand for such products is uncertain and difficult to predict, and it depends on factors beyond our control such as the competition faced by each customer, market acceptance of products that incorporate our IP and the financial and other resources of each customer. A reduction in the demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP or a decline in the general economic environment which results in the cutback of research and development budgets or capital expenditures would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. In addition, with increasing complexity in each successive generation of semiconductors, we face the risk that the rate of adoption of smaller technology processes may slow down. In addition, the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Significant economic downturns characterized by diminished demand, erosion of average selling prices, production overcapacity and production capacity constraints are other factors affecting the semiconductor industry. As a result, we may face a reduced number of design starts, tightening of customers’ operating budgets, extensions of the approval process for new orders and projects and consolidation among our customers, all of which may adversely affect the demand for our products and may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. 25 Table of Contents The market for semiconductor IP can be highly competitive and dynamic. We may experience loss in market share to larger competitors with greater resources and/or our customer base may choose to develop semiconductor IP using their own internal design teams. We face competition from both existing suppliers of third-party semiconductor IP, as well as new suppliers that may enter the market. We also compete with the internal design teams of large, integrated device manufacturers. Many of these internal design teams have substantial programming and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal teams may develop technologies that compete directly with our technologies or may actively seek to license their own technologies to third parties, which could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. In addition, our existing customers may choose to develop their own technology solutions internally. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and larger customer bases, as well as greater financial and marketing resources, than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their products. In addition, the intense competition in the market for semiconductor IP could result in pricing pressures, reduced license revenues, reduced margins or lost market share, any of which could harm our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. The technology used in the semiconductor industry is rapidly changing and if we are unable to develop new technologies and adapt our existing IP to new processes, we will be unable to attract or retain customers. The semiconductor industry has been characterized by an increasingly rapid rate of development of new technologies and manufacturing processes, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner, and to adapt our existing IP to satisfy the requirements of new processes and our customers. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the enhancements or new generations of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to attract or retain customers and our operating results could be harmed. Our ability to continue developing technical innovations involves several risks, including the following: • our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies; • the emergence of new semiconductor manufacturing processes and our ability to enter into strategic relationships with pure-play semiconductor foundries to develop and test technologies for these new processes and provide customer referrals; • the significant research and development investment that we may be required to make before market acceptance, if any, of a particular technology; • the possibility that the industry may not accept a new technology or may delay use of a new technology after we have invested a significant amount of resources to develop it; and • new technologies introduced by our competitors. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, our IP will become obsolete and we will be unable to sell our products. Further, as new technologies or manufacturing processes are announced, customers may defer licensing our IP until those new technologies become available or our IP has been adopted for that manufacturing process. In addition, research and development requires a significant expense and resource commitment. We may not have the financial and other resources necessary to develop the technologies demanded in the future and may be unable to attract or retain customers. 26 Table of Contents General economic conditions and future terrorist attacks may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Continued unrest in Israel and the Middle East may negatively impact the investments that our worldwide customers make in these geographic regions. If businesses or consumers defer or cancel purchases of new products that contain complex semiconductors, purchases by fabless semiconductor companies, integrated device manufacturers and production levels by semiconductor manufacturers could decline. This could adversely affect our revenues which in turn would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risk Related to Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely on our proprietary technologies and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such proprietary technologies from third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, mask work and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights in our technologies. We cannot be sure that the United States Patent and Trademark Office will issue patents or trademarks for any of our pending applications. Further, any patents or trademark rights that we hold or may hold in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our IP to the same extent as applicable laws protect our IP in the United States. For instance, some portion of our IP developed outside of the United States may not receive the same copyright protection that it would receive if it was developed in the United States. As we increase our international presence, we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor the development of competing technologies that may infringe on our rights as well as unauthorized use of our technologies. We use license agreements, confidentiality agreements and employee nondisclosure and assignment agreements to limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information and to obtain ownership of technology prepared on a work-for-hire basis. We cannot be sure that we have taken adequate steps to protect our IP rights and deter misappropriation of these rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take effective steps to enforce our rights. Since we also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect some of our proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop and patent the same technologies or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose that technology. We also cannot be sure that we can ultimately protect our rights to and improperly disclose our proprietary technologies to others. Third parties may claim we are infringing or assisting others to infringe their IP rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from licensing our technology. There are numerous patents in the semiconductor industry and new patents are being issued at a rapid rate. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether our technologies infringe the patent right of others. As a result, we may be compelled to respond to infringement claims by third parties to protect our rights or defend our customers’ rights. These infringement claims, regardless of merit, could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. In settling these claims, we may be required to pay significant damages and may be prevented from licensing some of our technologies unless we enter into a royalty or license agreement. In addition, if challenging a claim is not feasible, we might be required to enter into royalty or license agreements. If available, the royalty or license agreement may include terms which require us to obtain a license from the third-party to sell or use the relevant technology which may result in significant expenses to the Company or to redesign the technology which would be time consuming and costly to the Company. In the event that we are not be able to obtain such royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, we may be prevented from licensing or developing our technology. 27 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are the following: • variations between our operating results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts who follow our business; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; • the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories, especially as compared to the investment profiles of our stockholders at a given time; • changes in economic and capital market conditions; • changes in business regulatory conditions; and • the trading volume of our common stock. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Alexander Shubat, our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, holds a large block of our common stock. Dr. Shubat has established a sales plan, or other sales accounts, to sell shares of our common stock and diversify his holdings. Significant sales by insiders, or the perception that large sales could occur, could adversely impact the public market for our stock. Sales transactions are also subject to the restrictions and filing requirements mandated by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 144. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders controlled as of September 30, 2008 approximately 62% of our common stock. As a result, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages to owning stock in companies with significant block stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that make it more difficult for another company to acquire control of our Company. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • our Board of Directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • our Board of Directors is staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; • nominations for election to our Board of Directors and the submission of matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting are subject to advance notice requirements; 28 Table of Contents • certain provisions in our bylaws and certificate may only be amended with the approval of stockholders holding 80% of our outstanding voting stock; • the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders is prohibited; and • our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in any “business combination” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, in February 2007, we executed change in control agreements with our executive officers, which provide severance benefits following a termination without cause, or for good reason, following a change in control. The existence of these agreements and potential pay-outs could act as a deterrent to a potential acquirer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 