Item 1A. Risk Factors: The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement and manage our growth strategy. Our growth strategy calls for expansion in: • existing markets by leveraging our current distribution to win new customers and more fully serve existing customers and their installed base of our products, and • new adjacent markets such as the mid-market segment of the office furniture market, vertical markets such as healthcare and education and emerging international markets. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to deliver to our customers a great experience, which includes innovative, well-made products and world class processes. Our success relies in part on our research and development and engineering efforts, our ability to manufacture or source the products, and customer acceptance of our products. As it relates to new markets, our success also depends on our ability to create and implement distribution strategies to reach these markets. The potential inability to successfully implement and manage our growth strategy could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Our efforts to grow our business in emerging markets include the risk factors listed below relating to our global operations, but can also include other risks. In certain markets in Asia and Eastern Europe where we are expanding our business, the legal and political environment can be unstable and uncertain which could make it difficult for us to compete successfully and to protect our investments or sell our investments in the future. As we hire new people and establish new processes in these locations, we are implementing our global business standards, but there is some risk our activities could expose us to liabilities. We also make investments in new business development initiatives which, like most startups, have a relatively high failure rate. We limit our investments in these initiatives and establish governance procedures to contain the associated risks, but losses could result and may be material. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. The office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of product. We compete on a variety of factors, including: brand recognition and reputation, price, lead time, delivery and service, product design and features, product quality, strength of dealers and other distributors and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers and facility managers. In the North America segment, our top competitors in our primary markets are Haworth, Inc., Herman Miller, Inc., HNI Corporation, Kimball International Inc. and Knoll, Inc. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures and a broader offering of moderately priced products, potentially making it more difficult for us to compete in certain customer segments. In addition, such competition may prevent us from maintaining or raising the prices of our products in response to rising raw material prices and other inflationary pressures. Although we do not have major offshore competitors in our North America segment, there are other segments of the North America furniture industry, notably the residential furniture and made-to-stock office furniture segments, where lower-cost imports have become dominant. While customer lead time and customization requirements are currently inhibiting factors, it is possible we could see increased competition from imports in our core markets. In the International segment, we tend to compete against a larger number of smaller size competitors. Most of our top competitors have strong relationships with their existing customers that can be a source of significant future sales through repeat and expansion orders. These competitors manufacture products with strong acceptance in the marketplace and can develop products that could have a competitive advantage over Steelcase products. In certain markets, we compete using an import model which requires longer lead times than local competitors with domestic supply chains. 8 Table of Contents In the Other category, we are experiencing intense competition related to static and interactive whiteboard products, which has negatively impacted our operating margins during 2007. Our continued success depends upon many things, including our ability to continue to manufacture and market high quality, high performance products at competitive prices and our ability to evolve our business model and implement world class processes to enable us to effectively compete in the office furniture industry’s increasingly competitive environment. Our success is also dependent on our ability to sustain our positive brand reputation and recognition among existing and potential customers and use our brand and our trademarks effectively as we enter new markets. Our efforts to restructure our industrial model may not be successful. Over the last several years, we have been migrating to a more flexible industrial model based on lean manufacturing principles and a simpler more platform-based product portfolio. We also began to adopt a global supply chain. These strategies, along with a precipitous drop in industry demand from 2002 to 2004, have led to the restructuring of our manufacturing operations in the North America and International segments. The restructuring of our manufacturing operations has involved actions such as workforce reductions, facility rationalizations and the disposition of excess assets, including real estate. The cost of these actions has had the effect of reducing earnings until expected cost savings are achieved. While we expect to complete the final phase of our publicly announced restructuring plans during Q1 2008, it is possible that additional restructuring actions will continue to be necessary, though at a less significant level, as we continue to implement our strategies. Therefore, it is also possible that the cost of our restructuring efforts will be higher than we anticipate. The success of our restructuring initiatives is dependent on several factors, including our ability to manage facility consolidation without disrupting existing customer commitments, efficient implementation of lean manufacturing techniques, simplifying our product portfolio, establishing cost effective regional distribution centers and implementing global sourcing and supply chain initiatives. Such actions may not be accomplished as quickly and effectively as anticipated, and we may not realize the expected benefits of our restructuring activities, either of which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our global operations subject us to risks that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices and manufacturing facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, design, develop or sell products in particular countries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • differing employment practices and labor issues, • local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions, • restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings, and • natural disasters, security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest, and global health issues. In the United States and most countries in Europe, our revenues and costs are typically in the same currency. However there are some situations where we export and import products in different currencies. We also may hold assets, such as equity investments, real estate investments and cash balances, or incur debt in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business, and changes in currency controls with respect to such countries, could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and 9 Table of Contents changes to U.S. and international monetary policies may also negatively impact our revenue. Varying tax rates or increasing limitations on net operating loss carry-forwards in different jurisdictions could negatively impact our consolidated effective tax rate. A downturn in the cyclical office furniture industry could adversely impact our revenues and profits. Office furniture industry revenues are impacted by a variety of cyclical macroeconomic factors such as corporate profits, non-residential fixed investment, white-collar employment growth and commercial office construction. Our product sales are directly tied to corporate capital spending, which is outside of our control. Geopolitical uncertainties, terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, other world events or combinations of such and other factors that are outside of our control could also have a significant effect on business confidence and the global economy and therefore, our business. The global office furniture industry experienced a significant downturn several years ago which dramatically impacted our profitability because of our historical strategy of vertical integration and the high level of fixed costs associated with our business. While we continue to restructure our industrial model, if another economic or industry downturn occurred in a similar magnitude as experienced during recent years, we may not be able to react fast enough to counteract the decline, which could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and access to capital. Other demand influences on our industry include technology changes, organizational change, employee health and safety concerns and the globalization of companies. The trend towards outsourcing white collar jobs could cause our major customers in our core markets to shift employment growth to countries where our market share is not as strong. Disruptions to the supply of raw materials, component parts and labor in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our supply chain management. We are reliant on the timely flow of raw materials and components from third party suppliers and our own manufacturing operations. The flow of such materials and components may be affected by: • fluctuations in the availability and quality of the raw materials, • damage and loss or disruption of production from accidents, natural disasters and other causes, and • disruptions caused by labor activities. We expect to continue to migrate to a less vertically integrated manufacturing model, which will increase our reliance on an international network of suppliers. Any disruptions in the supply and delivery of products or deficiencies in our ability to develop and manage our network of suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. We could be adversely affected by increasing raw material costs. We procure raw materials from a significant number of sources within the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia. These raw materials are not rare or unique to our industry. The absolute level and volatility in steel and other commodity costs, such as energy, have significantly increased in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. These changes could also lead to supply interruptions. Our gross margins could be affected if these types of costs remain high or escalate further. In the short run, rapid changes in raw material costs can be very difficult to offset because of price hold agreements we have entered into with our customers. It is difficult to find effective hedge markets to manage these risks. In the longer run, we may not be successful in passing along a portion of the higher raw materials costs to our customers because of competitive pressures. 10 Table of Contents Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely largely on a network of independent and company-owned dealers to market our products to customers. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with dealers. From time to time, an individual dealer or Steelcase may choose to terminate the relationship, or the dealership could face financial difficulty leading to failure or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. In addition, our competitors or other third parties could engage in a strategy to attempt to acquire or convert a number of our dealers to carry their products. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. However, temporary disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could temporarily have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to make financial investments in the dealership, reducing the risk of disruption, but increasing our financial exposure. A portion of our international distribution network is owned because of the need for us to make financial investments in dealerships in order to preserve our market share in the affected regions. If we are not able to effectively manage these dealerships, they could have a negative effect on our operating results. In certain cases, we have adopted a direct model of distribution through which we establish company-owned sales and service capabilities. Our direct-sale and owned-dealer models sell non-Steelcase products where product gaps exist. These models involve increased operational risk, the risk of conflict with other distribution channels and the risk that we will not be able to compete effectively to win business in those markets because of a more limited breadth of product offering than a dealer who carries multiple lines of products. We could be adversely affected by product defects. Product defects can occur within our own product development and manufacturing processes or through our increasing reliance on third parties for product development and manufacturing activities. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. The amount of our product defect expenses relative to product sales varies from time to time and could increase in the future. We maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, but our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve and we could need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. In addition, the reputation of our brands may be diminished by product defects and recalls. Any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There may be significant limitations to our utilization of net operating losses to offset future taxable income. We have significant deferred tax asset values related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) in various jurisdictions. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations in the applicable jurisdiction to fully utilize our NOLs. We have NOLs in various currencies that are also subject to foreign exchange risk, which could reduce the amount that we will ultimately realize. Additionally, future changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws may limit our ability to fully utilize our NOLs. 11 Table of Contents Our acquisition, joint venture or alliance activities may not be successful. Our growth strategy may involve acquisitions, joint ventures alliances and additional channels of distribution. Some of the risks associated with these activities are: • we may not identify attractive opportunities or be able to enter into transactions on acceptable terms and at the right price, • we may not successfully integrate acquired entities into our operations and be able to retain key employees of the acquired companies, • our business philosophy may change which could affect the business rationale for our joint ventures or alliances, and • we may not successfully implement new distribution channels, and changes could create discord in our existing channels of distribution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 