ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risk Factors Supplier Concentration Our purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 54% of all purchases made during 2011. Significant relationships currently exist with four of the seven major HVAC equipment manufacturers; and purchases from these equipment suppliers, including Carrier, comprised 71% of all purchases made in 2011. Given the significant concentration of our supply chain, particularly with Carrier, any significant interruption by the manufacturers or a termination of a distribution agreement could temporarily disrupt the operations of certain subsidiaries. Additionally, our operations are also materially dependent upon the continued market acceptance of these manufacturers’ products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that are competitive and that comply with laws relating to environmental and efficiency standards. Our inability to obtain products from one or more of these manufacturers or a decline in market acceptance of these manufacturers’ products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 8 Table of Contents We maintain separate and distinct trade name distribution agreements with Carrier. These agreements provide us the use of various Carrier brand names and distribution rights for certain Carrier HVAC brands and products on an exclusive basis in specified territories. The trade name and distribution agreements are not subject to a stated term or expiration date. We also maintain distribution agreements with our other key equipment suppliers, either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, for terms generally ranging from one to ten years. Certain of the distribution agreements contain provisions that restrict or limit the sale of competitive products in the markets served. Other than the markets where such restrictions and limitations may apply, we may distribute other manufacturers’ lines of air conditioning or heating equipment. Risks Inherent in Acquisitions As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions of complementary businesses. If we complete future acquisitions and/or joint ventures, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt and/or issue additional shares of our common stock as consideration, which will dilute our existing shareholders’ ownership interest in us and may affect our results of operations. Growth through acquisitions involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the ability to identify and consummate complementary acquisition candidates; • the successful operation and/or integration of acquired companies in an effective manner; • diversion of management’s attention from other daily functions; • issuance by us of equity securities that would dilute ownership of our existing shareholders; • incurrence and/or assumption of significant debt and contingent liabilities; and • possible loss of key employees and/or customer relationships of the acquired companies. In addition, acquired companies may have liabilities that we failed, or were unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations. We cannot assure you that the indemnification granted to us by sellers of acquired companies will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with businesses or properties that we assume upon consummation of an acquisition. We may learn additional information about our acquired businesses that materially adversely affect us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and liabilities related to compliance with applicable laws. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to successfully manage the operational challenges and risks associated with, or resulting from, acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Competition We operate in highly competitive environments. We compete with a number of distributors and also with several air conditioning and heating equipment manufacturers that distribute a significant portion of their products through their own distribution organizations in certain markets. Competition within any given geographic market is based upon product availability, customer service, price and quality. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause our products or services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Decline in Economic Conditions The global and U.S. economy experienced a significant contraction in 2008, including sharply reduced availability of business and consumer credit. We rely on the capital markets as well as the credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit market, such as those that began in 2008, could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include reducing or eliminating dividend payments, deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. A decline in economic conditions and lack of availability of business and consumer credit could have an adverse effect on our business. Any capital and credit market disruption could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to reduced demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Additionally, if financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. 9 Table of Contents Seasonality Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment and parts and supplies have historically been seasonal. Furthermore, profitability can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on the severity or mildness of weather patterns during summer or winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is typically highest in the second and third quarters, and demand for heating equipment is usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction sectors throughout most of the markets is fairly even during the year except for dependence on housing completions and related weather and economic conditions. Dependence on Key Personnel Much of our future success depends on the skills, experience and services of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficiently in order to both maintain our current business and to execute our strategic initiatives. Our success also depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our store employees who we rely on to give customers a superior in-store experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our stores. If we are unable to recruit, retain and motivate employees sufficiently in order to maintain our current business and support our projected growth and expansion, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Our operations in Mexico generally consider their functional currency to be the U.S. dollar since the majority of their transactions are denominated in U.S dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on transactions denominated in Mexican Pesos, and therefore, could adversely affect our financial performance. General Risk Factors Goodwill and Intangibles At December 31, 2011, goodwill and intangibles represented approximately 31% of our total assets. The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting unit and contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The estimates of fair value of our reporting unit and indefinite lived intangibles are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporates management’s assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplates other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in the industry, a declining economic environment or market conditions. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer material impairments to goodwill in the future. Risks Related to Insurance Coverage We carry general liability, comprehensive property damage, workers’ compensation, health benefits and other insurance coverage that management considers adequate for the protection of its assets and operations. There can be no assurance, however, that the coverage limits of such policies will be adequate to cover losses and expenses for lawsuits brought or which may be brought against us. A loss in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or profitability. Certain self-insurance risks for casualty insurance programs and health benefits are retained and reserves are established based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Assurance cannot be provided that actual claims will not exceed present estimates. Exposure to catastrophic losses has been limited by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage and implementing stop-loss control programs. Control by Existing Shareholder As of December 31, 2011, Albert H. Nahmad, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, a limited partnership and various trusts controlled by him, collectively had beneficial ownership of approximately 54% of the combined voting power of our outstanding Common and Class B common stock. Based on Mr. Nahmad’s stock ownership and the stock ownership of the limited partnership and various trusts controlled by him, Mr. Nahmad has the voting power to elect all but three members of our nine-person Board of Directors and to control most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Information about Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding, among other items, (i) economic conditions, (ii) business and acquisition strategies, (iii) potential acquisitions and/or joint ventures, (iv) financing plans and (v) industry, demographic and other trends affecting 10 Table of Contents our financial condition or results of operations. These forward-looking statements are based largely on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, certain of which are beyond their control. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to: • general economic conditions; • competitive factors within the HVAC/R industry; • effects of supplier concentration; • fluctuations in certain commodity costs; • consumer spending; • consumer debt levels; • new housing starts and completions; • capital spending in the commercial construction market; • access to liquidity needed for operations; • seasonal nature of product sales; • weather conditions; • insurance coverage risks; • federal, state and local regulations impacting our industry and products; • prevailing interest rates; • refinancing of revolving credit agreements with satisfactory terms; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • the continued viability of our business strategy. In light of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained herein will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that the information will have the expected consequences or effects on us or our business or operations. A discussion of certain of these risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements is set forth in this Item 1A and included in our 2011 Annual Report in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which section is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except to the extent required by applicable law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 