Item 1A. Risk Factors Included below is a description of risk factors related to our business to enable readers to assess, and be appropriately apprised of, many of the risks and uncertainties applicable to the forward-looking statements made in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are not all of the risks and uncertainties facing our business, but we do believe that they reflect important ones. You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this report, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Risks Related to our Financial Performance Recent worldwide economic turmoil may affect our financial performance or our ability to forecast our business. The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and its impact on purchases of our products by our customers. These economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Customers may experience unexpected fluctuations in demand for their products, as consumers alter purchasing activities in response to this economic uncertainty, and these customers may change or scale back product development efforts, product purchases or other sales activities that affect purchases of our products. This uncertainty may affect our ability to provide or meet specific forecasted results, as we attempt to address this increased volatility in our business. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a slowing of customer demand across our four markets, and we accommodated customer requests to reschedule existing backlog into 2009 to minimize customer inventory levels at the end of the year. As a result of such decision to reschedule, we updated and revised downward our revenue expectations for the fourth quarter of 2008. It is currently unclear as to what overall effect these economic conditions and uncertainties will have on the marketplace and our future business. If we are unable to adequately respond to unforeseeable changes in demand resulting from general economic conditions, or if these economic conditions persist or continue to deteriorate, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our financial performance in the past has fluctuated and we may not be able to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We were profitable for the first time in 2004, following annual net losses from 1996 through 2003, and as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $16.8 million. While we have experienced revenue growth in recent years, the rate of revenue growth has fluctuated significantly over such periods. Specifically, our annual net revenue increased 39% to $104.2 million in 2008, from $74.7 million in 2007, and revenue increased 0.1% to $74.7 million in 2007 from $74.6 million in 2006. We expect our quarterly and annual revenue to continue to fluctuate between periods. Our net revenue may decline over a period to period basis and we may not maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future revenue growth or financial results. Our ability to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis depends in part on the rate of growth of our target markets, the continued acceptance of our and our customers’ products, the competitive position of our products, our ability to develop new products, our ability to secure adequate manufacturing capacity and our ability to manage expenses. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenue, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenue. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate in the future, making it difficult for us to accurately forecast our operating results. In the past, our net revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter and year to year, and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, are likely to cause our net revenue and operating results to fluctuate. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the loss of one or more key customers, or a significant reduction in sales to, or significant product returns by, one or more key customers; • demand for our products or the electronic systems into which our products are incorporated and our ability to accurately forecast such demand; • the ability of our foundries and third-party subcontractors to achieve satisfactory yields or quality; • our customers’ and distributors’ management of the inventory they hold; • our management of our own inventory levels to meet changes in demand; • changes in orders both received and shipped during the same quarter (our “turns business”); • our ability to develop new products or new generations and versions of our existing products that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner; • our ability to fulfill orders for our products in a timely manner, or at all; • the timing of introductions of competing products or technologies; • our ability to obtain sufficient capacity from foundries and other third-party subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test our products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • varying order patterns in the markets in which we sell our products; • our customers’ failure to pay us on a timely basis, or at all; • the ability of our manufacturing subcontractors to obtain an adequate supply of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products on a timely and cost effective basis; • the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry; • instability or deterioration in worldwide economic conditions; • changes in the level of our expenses, including the cost of materials used to manufacture our products and expenses incurred in complying with new laws and regulations applicable to us; 9 Table of Contents • the loss of one or more key distributors, or a significant reduction in orders from one or more key distributors; • changes in the prices of our products or the electronic systems into which our products are incorporated; • our ability to adequately support our future growth; • disputes regarding intellectual property rights; and • litigation involving us or our products. Due to these and other factors discussed in this report, you should not rely upon the results of any prior quarter or year as an indication of our future operating performance. We are exposed to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable, and this risk has been heightened during the current decline in economic conditions. A substantial majority of our outstanding accounts receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following shipment of product. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses. As economic conditions change and worsen, certain of our customers may face liquidity concerns and may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to our Markets and Customers We target our sales and marketing efforts in particular markets, and in these markets we have experienced varying order patterns, and if demand for our products in these markets declines, or if we are unable to adjust to the varying order patterns in these markets or expand into new markets, our business would be harmed. In 2008, most of our net revenue was derived from the sale of our products in the server and storage markets. If the demand for our products in these markets declines, or if demand for products in the other markets we are targeting, such as the consumer and networking markets, does not continue to develop, we would need to further diversify and expand our target markets. If we are unable to do so in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, our business in these markets has been subject to varying order patterns, and we expect business in new markets we enter into will similarly be subject to varying order patterns. In particular, our operating results could be negatively impacted during the first quarter of each year due to the lunar New Year holidays in Asia, during which time many of our customers, manufacturers, and subcontractors cease or significantly reduce their operations. We also address higher-volume applications across multiple markets, which applications could include desktop and notebook computers, digital cameras, digital televisions, digital video recorders, or DVRs, game consoles, graphics cards, hard disk drives, printers and set-top boxes. In these higher-volume applications, we expect a disproportionate amount of our net revenue to be generated during the second half of the year as a result of the December holiday season. If we are unable to adjust production of our products or the levels of our operating expenses to address changes in demand, our operating results would be harmed. We depend on a small number of customers for substantially all of our net revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of them would significantly reduce our net revenue and adversely affect our operating results. We sell our products primarily to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, contract equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, either directly through our internal sales force or indirectly through distributors and outsourced suppliers. The markets in which we sell products, particularly in the workstation and desktop market and the consumer and portable market, are prone to significant and unpredictable changes in demand, and our product 10 Table of Contents sales are directly affected by the ability of our concentrated customer base to sell their products or electronic systems that incorporate our products. If these electronic systems are not commercially successful or if the development or commercial introduction of such electronic systems is delayed or fails to occur as planned or forecasted, or if our customers do not consistently manage their inventory of products we sell to them, our operating results will be adversely affected. We expect a significant amount of our revenue to continue to come from the commercial introduction of new systems making our revenue more difficult to forecast. In 2008, three customers each accounted for over 10% of our net revenue, and collectively accounted for approximately 71% of our net revenue and in 2007, four customers each accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue, and collectively accounted for approximately 81% of our net revenue. While we report revenue for direct sales to particular customers, our sales data may not accurately reflect the additional “indirect” demand from distributors and outsourced suppliers who purchase our products pursuant to their business relationships with such significant customers. Because we have less visibility into and are not able to quantify this “indirect” demand, we are unable to determine how much additional revenue these significant customers may affect. In addition, our sales data also may not identify customers who do not directly account for 10% of our net revenue, but may be significant in that such customers also generate significant “indirect” demand from distributors and outsourced suppliers. If any such significant customer were to stop incorporating our products or third party products containing our components into its designs, we would not only lose the direct revenue we receive from the significant customer, but we could also lose a portion of the revenue from third parties who do business with such significant customer. We expect demand from a small number of customers to continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue for the current fiscal year. In addition, our accounts receivable tend to be concentrated with a small group of customers and we expect this to continue. Consolidation among our customers may increase our customer concentration. The loss of any of our major customers could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial position. We sell a limited number of products and a reduction in demand for these products would harm our business and operating results. We derive substantially all of our net revenue from the sale of integrated voltage regulator semiconductors and scalable voltage regulator semiconductor chipsets, and we expect to continue to derive substantially all of our net revenue from these products for the current fiscal year. If demand for these products declines or does not grow, we may be forced to diversify our product offerings. Factors that could cause the demand for our products to decline include downturns in the semiconductor industry or general economic conditions, the introduction of competing products, our pricing strategies and the pricing strategies of our competitors, or a decline in demand for the electronic systems into which our products are incorporated. Our inability to diversify our products in a timely and cost-effective manner would harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to timely develop new products or new generations and versions of our existing products that achieve market acceptance, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. Our industry is characterized by intense competition, rapidly evolving technology, and continually changing customer requirements. These factors could render our existing products obsolete. Accordingly, our ability to compete in the future will depend in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new generations and versions of our existing products that achieve market acceptance on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to respond to changing requirements. If we are unable to do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be negatively affected. The successful development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • our accurate prediction of changing customer requirements; • timely development of new designs; • timely qualification and certification of our products for use in electronic systems; 11 Table of Contents • commercial acceptance and production of the electronic systems into which our products are incorporated; • availability, quality, price, performance, and size of our products relative to competing products and technologies; • our customer service and support capabilities and responsiveness; • successful development of relationships with existing and potential new customers; • successful development of relationships with key developers of advanced digital semiconductors; and • changes in technology, industry standards or consumer preferences. Products we have recently developed and which we are currently developing may not achieve market acceptance. If these products fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to timely develop new products that achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and competitive position could be adversely affected. Because we often manufacture products in advance of receiving purchase orders, or if existing purchase orders are changed or cancelled, we are subject to inventory risks and manufacturing costs that could negatively impact our operating results. To ensure availability of our products for our customers, we typically start the manufacturing of our products based on forecasts provided by these customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenue from these products until they are shipped to the customer. In addition, because we primarily sell our products to distributors and outsourced suppliers and not directly to electronic system designers, we have more limited visibility into ultimate product demand, which makes forecasting more difficult for us. We incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenue. Demand for our products may not materialize and if we overestimate customer demand for our products, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and obsolescence and may increase our costs. Similarly, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient product inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships, which also could harm our business. In addition, our current sales practice generally allows customers to, and customers routinely do, revise and cancel orders and reschedule delivery dates on relatively short notice pursuant to changes in the customer’s requirements. If, after initial orders are placed, we change certain features of our product to accommodate customer requirements, we may create additional inventory that we may not be able to sell. If purchase orders are changed or cancelled, or if shipments are delayed, we may end up with excess inventory that we cannot sell, which could result in the loss of anticipated revenue and an increase in our costs due to excess inventory charges which could materially impact our financial results. Our inventory levels were $13.7 million at December 31, 2008, and inventory turns, calculated as our annualized cost of revenue for the quarter divided by our inventory as of the end of such quarter, decreased to 2.8 turns in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to 4.6 turns in the third quarter of 2008 and to 5.7 turns in the fourth quarter of 2007. If the amount of inventory we are holding increases or our inventory turns decrease, the risk of a potential inventory write-down and adverse impact on our financial results increases. We rely primarily on a small number of distributors to market and distribute our products, and if we fail to maintain or expand these relationships, our net revenue would likely decline. Many purchases of our products are made through a concentrated group of distributors. Sales to these distributors account for a significant portion of our net revenue. Our sales to distributors accounted for 54% of our net revenue in 2008 compared to 46% in 2007. None of our distributors are required to purchase a specified minimum level of products from us. Currently, our sales to distributors are made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts and although we do not grant them a right of return pursuant to these purchase orders, their orders may be cancelled or changed more readily than if we had long-term purchase commitments. In the event of a cancellation, reduction or delay of an order, we may not have enough time to 12 Table of Contents reduce operating expenses to minimize the effect of the lost revenue on our business. We also rely on our distributors to provide certain support services and other customer service to our customers. If they fail to provide appropriate levels of support and service to our customers on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers will suffer. We need to maintain and expand our relationships with distributors, develop additional channels for the distribution and sale of our products, and effectively manage these relationships. If we fail to do so, our distributors may decide not to include our products among those that they sell or they may not make marketing and selling our products a priority. In addition, our distributors may sell product lines that are competitive with ours. If we fail to successfully manage our relationships with distributors, our business would be harmed. We are subject to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and any future downturns could significantly harm our business. Our business is heavily influenced by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could significantly harm our business or reduce our revenue from one period to the next or for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has experienced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to factors that affect the semiconductor industry generally. Risks Related to Competition, Intellectual Property, Litigation and Regulation We face significant competition and many of our competitors have greater resources than we have, and thus we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The markets for semiconductors generally, and power management semiconductors in particular, are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify in the future as larger semiconductor manufacturers enter into our market space. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced profitability, and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our business, revenue, and operating results. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • our ability to continue to recruit and retain engineering talent; • our ability to introduce new products in a timely manner; • the pricing of components used in competing solutions; • the pace at which our customers incorporate our products into their systems; • the availability of foundry, assembly, and test capacity for our products; • protection of our products by effective utilization of intellectual property laws; and • general economic conditions. We consider our primary competitors to include International Rectifier, Intersil, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products and Texas Instruments. In addition, we compete with a number of other companies, some of which may become significant competitors. We may also face competition from new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, complementary product offerings, a larger customer base, longer relationships with customers and distributors, and significantly greater financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to customer requirements, to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sales of their products and to influence industry acceptance of their products better than we can. These competitors may also be able to 13 Table of Contents adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products with performance comparable or superior to that of our products at a lower cost. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may have or be able to obtain silicon wafer fabrication capacity when we are unable to obtain such capacity. We expect our competitors to continue to introduce new or enhanced products technologies with greater performance and improved pricing, which could cause our products to become obsolete or uncompetitive and harm our operating results. The average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, which may negatively impact our net revenue and operating results. The average selling prices for power management solutions have historically declined over time. Factors that we expect to cause downward pressure on the average selling price for our products include competitive pricing pressures, the cost sensitivity of our customers, particularly in the higher-volume markets, new product introductions by us or our competitors, and other factors. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to offset any reduction in the average selling prices of our products by developing and introducing new products and developing new generations and versions of existing products on a timely basis, increasing sales volume, and reducing costs. If the average selling prices for our products decline and we are unable to offset those reductions, our operating results will suffer. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy, or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. In November 2008, we filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court in the Northern District of California against Primarion, Inc., Infineon Technologies AG and Infineon Technologies North America Corporation for infringement of several of our patents. On or about December 18, 2008, the Defendants filed an answer generally denying the allegations, and stating affirmative defenses and counterclaims, including claims for declaratory relief for inequitable conduct before the U.S. patent office and for Sherman Act violations. We are in the early stage of this litigation and thus are unable to assess the possible outcome of this litigation. Such action or any similar action could consume significant financial and other resources, and although the Company strongly believes in the validity of its position, there is no guarantee that any such proceedings would be successful on its merits. Because of the nature and inherent uncertainties of litigation, should the outcome of these actions be unfavorable, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, we had 48 issued patents and 30 patent applications pending in the United States, and five foreign patent applications pending. These patents have expiration dates ranging from December 2017 to October 2025. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents or may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us or our vendors of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. In the future, we may receive communications from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant 14 Table of Contents liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to take steps that may be harmful to our business, including, but not limited to: • stop selling products or using technology that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • pay damages to the party claiming infringement; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, the third-party foundries or subcontractors that manufacture our products may also face litigation for claims of intellectual property. Although not directly creating liabilities for us, such litigation may cause such third parties to cease providing services to us, or may cause us to incur increased costs, either of which may harm our business. We may also initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. In some cases, we may have an existing direct or indirect relationship with these third parties, such as customers, vendors, partners or companies within the industry that generally affect our business. Such claims or litigation could not only affect our intellectual property or proprietary rights, but may also affect and disrupt our business relationship with such third parties, impairing our ability to conduct our business and adversely affecting our financial and operational results. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our customers, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we indemnify our customers against claims made against them based on allegations that our products infringe intellectual property rights, such litigation could result in substantial expense for us. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify our customers, any such litigation could hurt our relations with our customers and cause our operating results to be harmed. Our stock price will fluctuate and may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors and significant costs related to litigation. Investors may be unable to resell their shares at or above the purchase price and this could result in substantial losses for those investors. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue, operating results or growth rate; • failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our financial performance; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • sales of our common stock or other securities in the future; • stock market price and trading volume fluctuations of publicly-traded companies in general and semiconductor companies in particular; • the trading volume of our common stock; • changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts for us, our competitors or companies in the semiconductor industry generally; 15 Table of Contents • changes in the condition of the financial markets, the economy as a whole, the semiconductor industry, our customers or our competitors; • publicity about the semiconductor industry, our competitors or our customers; and • changes in key personnel. The stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility and decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile or declines, we may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in significant costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our third-party semiconductor assembly subcontractors such as Amkor Technology, STATS ChipPAC Ltd., Carsem, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and UTAC, timely comply with such laws and regulations. Because we work with subcontractors to make specified modifications to their standard processes, transitioning the manufacturing of our products can require substantial lead time. Any future delay resulting from such transition could negatively affect product performance, delivery, and yields or increase manufacturing costs. If we, or the subcontractors that we use, fail to timely comply such laws, our customers may refuse to purchase our products. Such refusal or delay would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Manufacturing and Development Activities Our dependence on third-party semiconductor manufacturers, or foundries, reduces our control over the manufacture of our products and increases our exposure to third party solvency risks, which could harm our business. We are a fabless semiconductor company and as such, we rely on third-party semiconductor manufacturers, or foundries, such as Chartered Semiconductor Corporation and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation. The ability of these foundries to provide silicon wafers to us is limited by their available capacity. Moreover, the price of our silicon wafers has in the past fluctuated and is expected to continue to fluctuate, based on changes in available industry capacity. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our foundries. Therefore, our manufacturers could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, particularly larger customers, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice or increase the prices they charge us. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on these third-party manufacturers including, but not limited to: • inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • inability of our foundries to obtain an adequate supply of the raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products on a timely and cost-effective basis; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • limited warranties on silicon wafers or products supplied to us; • labor shortages or labor strikes; 16 Table of Contents • natural disasters affecting countries in which we conduct our business or in which our products are manufactured; and • political instability in countries where our products are manufactured. In addition, these third party manufacturers may elect or may be forced to shut down particular facilities for reasons beyond our control, which may require us to transition the manufacturing of our products to other facilities of such third party manufacturer or to other third party manufacturers. Because we work with foundries to make specified modifications to their standard process technologies, transitioning the manufacturing of our products to other foundries or other facilities of an existing foundry can require process design changes and may require substantial lead time. Any such delay resulting from such transition could negatively affect product performance, delivery, and yields or increase manufacturing costs. If we are not able to obtain foundry capacity as required, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our net revenue would likely decline. Deterioration of worldwide economic conditions and financial markets and tightening in credit markets may adversely impact the financial position of our third party manufacturers. If our third party manufacturers are unable to obtain the necessary capital to operate their business, this may also impact their ability to provide us with the foundry capacity we need, or may adversely affect their ability to provide timely services or to make timely deliveries of products to us. Any such result could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We rely on third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products and our failure to successfully manage our relationships with these subcontractors could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our net revenue, and limit our growth. We rely on third-party subcontractors, such as Amkor Technology, STATS ChipPAC Ltd., Carsem, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering and UTAC, to assemble and test our products. None of these third-party vendors are obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantities, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Moreover, none of our assembly and test subcontractors has provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet future demand for our products. We are subject to many of the same risks with these vendors as with our foundries, including risks related to the ability of such vendors to continue to provide us with the agreed-upon services or products as needed, and our ability to control delivery schedules and product quality. If we do not successfully manage these relationships, the quality of products shipped to our customers may decline, which would damage our relationships with customers, decrease our net revenue, and negatively impact our growth. Our products are highly complex and may require modifications to resolve previously undetected design or process errors or defects and to meet our customers’ specifications, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of revenue and customers, a delay in market acceptance of our products, or product liability claims. Our power management products are highly complex and may contain previously undetected errors or defects in design or that occur in the manufacturing or assembly process that may significantly affect yields or quality. If we deliver products with errors or defects, we may suffer a reduction in, or deferral, of our revenue as a result of significant product returns and our operating results and financial position could be materially impacted. We may incur product replacement costs, and we may have to rework or scrap inventory that is returned. In addition, we may incur additional manufacturing and/or development costs to fix the defect or error and may have to rework or scrap inventory that had been built with the error or defect resulting in additional costs. If we are unable to fully recover or be reimbursed for all or a portion of these costs, our financial position and operating results may be adversely impacted. Also as a result of shipping products with defects or errors, our credibility and the market acceptance of our products could be harmed. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products as a result of lawsuits against our customers or us. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. In the future, as we increase the amount of business with any given customer, we may be expected to agree upon additional terms and conditions of sale regarding product quality or product defects which may increase our costs, obligations and liabilities in connection with our product sales. Although we maintain insurance coverage consistent with customary industry 17 Table of Contents practice to defray potential costs from lawsuits, including lawsuits arising from product liability, if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited or covered by such insurance, a successful product liability claim could require us to pay a significant amount of damages, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and financial position. Our products comprise only part of the complex electronic systems in which they are used. As a result, our products must operate according to specifications with the other components in the electronic system. If other components of the electronic system fail to operate properly with our products, we may be required to incur additional development time and costs to enable interoperability of our products with these other components and may not be able to sell our existing inventory resulting in additional cost of revenue and materially adversely affecting our financial results. Any disruption to our operations or the operations of our foundries or assembly and test subcontractors resulting from earthquakes, droughts, or other natural disasters, public health issues or other catastrophic events beyond our control could significantly delay the production or shipment of our products. Our principal offices are located in California. In addition, we rely on foundries and assembly and test subcontractors in South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and China. The risk of an earthquake in these Pacific Rim locations is significant. The occurrence of an earthquake, drought, floods, fires or other natural disaster near our principal offices or our subcontractors’ locations could result in damage, power outages, and other disruptions that impair our design, manufacturing, and assembly capacity and otherwise interfere with our ability to conduct our business. In addition, public health issues, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events could significantly delay the production or shipment of our products. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the shipment of our products until we are able to shift our fabrication, assembling, testing or other operations from the affected subcontractor to another third-party vendor. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development and introduction of our new products, which may harm our business and operating results. The development of our products is highly complex, costly and inherently risky. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the development and introduction of new products or new generations and versions of our existing products. If we are unable to develop or introduce products on a timely basis, we may lose new or existing market and customer opportunities and our financial results or competitive position could be harmed. We cannot assure you that the procedures that we have implemented to minimize delays will be effective or that delays may not occur in the future. In particular, we expect to continue to bring new products to production in new manufacturing and assembly processes. Any future delays in the introduction of new products or new generations or versions of our existing products could materially harm our business and operating results. The nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to earning revenue associated with those expenses, and we will have difficulty selling our products and generating profits if electronic system designers do not design our products into their electronic systems. We devote significant time and resources in working with electronic system designers to get our products designed into their systems. If the system designer chooses a competitor’s product for its electronic system, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that electronic system because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort, and risk for electronic system designers. If electronic system designers do not design our products into their systems, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that electronic system designers will select our product for use in their electronic systems. If we incur such expenditures and fail to be selected, or if we are selected and subsequently excluded from such designs, our operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, even if electronic system designers use our products in their electronic systems, we cannot be assured that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive any associated revenue. 18 Table of Contents Even if our products are selected for design into a particular electronic system, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenue related to the significant expenses we have incurred. The reasons for this delay generally include, but are not limited to, the following: • it can typically take up to 12 months from the time our products are selected to complete the design process, and in some cases such design process may take substantially more time to complete; • it can typically take an additional six to 12 months to complete commercial introduction of the electronic systems that use our products, and in some cases such introduction may take substantially more time to complete, if they are introduced at all; • our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their electronic systems, which may also result in our products being excluded from the system design for reasons other than our design specifications; • OEMs typically limit the initial release of their electronic systems to evaluate performance and consumer demand; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology are frequently delayed. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenue. In addition, incurring research and development expenses prior to generating revenue may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Risks Related to our International Activities We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue such efforts, which subjects us to additional business risks including increased logistical complexity, additional regulatory restrictions and political instability. A number of our customers are multinational corporations, with operations located throughout the world. In 2008, 98% of our net revenue was attributable to customers, or customers’ operations, located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be generated by sales to these customers or to the customers’ operations in Asia. We have engineering, sales, and operations personnel in Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, China and the United Kingdom. Our foundries, assembly and test subcontractors, and distributors are also primarily located in Asia. Our international operations and sales are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • cultural and language barriers; • increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition in some countries; • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulatory and tax environments; • potentially longer and more difficult collection periods; • political instability, international terrorism, and anti-American sentiment, particularly in emerging markets; • highly volatile economies in Asia; • difficulty in hiring qualified management, technical sales personnel, and applications engineers; and • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States. Our inability to overcome these risks could adversely affect our foreign operations, and some of our customers and suppliers, and could harm our business and operating results. 19 Table of Contents We do not hedge fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could harm our financial results. Substantially all sales to international customers and purchases of production materials and manufacturing services from international suppliers in 2008 were denominated in U.S. dollars. However, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have an effect on our results of operations and financial condition. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive for our international customers to purchase, thus rendering the prices of our products less competitive. If the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to foreign currencies, this could result in an increase in the effective costs of working with our international vendors or suppliers, and our ability to control our cost structure and maintain our financial results could be harmed. Risks Related to our Growth and Organization We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business that may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We will evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, products or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. Acquisitions that we may potentially make in the future entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our operating and financial results, including, but not limited to: • our lack of experience acquiring other businesses; • problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies, or products with our existing business and products; • diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; • the need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; • overestimation of potential synergies or a delay in realizing those synergies; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; • risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. Future acquisitions also could cause us to incur debt or contingent liabilities or cause us to issue equity securities that would reduce the ownership percentages of existing stockholders. Furthermore, acquisitions could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, impairment of goodwill, or the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and to identifiable purchased intangible assets, any of which would negatively affect our operating results. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our resources, systems, and controls may be strained and our operating results may suffer. In recent periods, we have continued to increase the scope of our operations and the size of our workforce. This growth has placed, and any future growth of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems, and resources. We anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage, and motivate our workforce, and manage our customer and distributor relationships, develop our internal sales force, and manage our foundry and assembly and test subcontractors. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill, and we anticipate that we will require additional personnel and internal processes to manage these efforts. We plan to fund the costs of our operational and financial systems, additional personnel, and internal processes from current cash balances and funds generated from operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, our revenue and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC, which we collectively refer to as Section 404. As we grow and implement new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls, we will need to maintain internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in the course of our Section 404 compliance, we may identify deficiencies in our internal controls, some of which may be categorized as significant deficiencies. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses in our internal controls. If we fail to correct the deficiencies that we identify and to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We rely on the services of our key personnel, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We rely upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key technical and senior management personnel. If we are unable to retain any of our key technical or senior management personnel, such as Jeffrey Staszak, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or are unable to fill key positions, our business could be harmed. As a result, our future success depends on retaining our management team and other key employees. We rely on these individuals for the management of our company, development of our products and business strategy, and management of our strategic relationships, and for the reliability of our financial reporting and the design and maintenance of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, we rely on a relatively small number of analog and mixed-signal design engineers who have the training and experience to design our products. Any of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and could work with our competitors, subject to their continuing confidentiality obligations to us. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Additionally, there are a limited number of qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacture, and sale of power management semiconductors, and we may face challenges in hiring and retaining these types of employees. If our computer and communications hardware fails, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Our ability to successfully operate our business depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of the computer and communications hardware necessary to operate our business is located at a single leased facility. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events, any of which may result in interruptions, delays, loss of critical data, the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data or proprietary technical information. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations or a formal disaster recovery plan, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. If any of these events or interruptions were to occur, our business and results of operations could be substantially harmed. Our principal stockholders have significant voting power and may influence actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of January 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 29% of our outstanding voting stock and we believe such stockholders continue to hold a significant portion of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. This 21 Table of Contents concentration of beneficial ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders whose interests are different from those of our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders. For example, our executive officers, directors, and principal stockholders, acting together with stockholders owning a relatively small percentage of our outstanding stock, could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions resulting in a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may make more difficult or discourage, delay or prevent a change in the ownership of our company or a change in our management or our board of directors. The following are examples of provisions that are included in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that might have those effects: • our board of directors is classified so that not all members of our board of directors may be elected at one time; • directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of stockholders holding a majority of our outstanding voting stock; • the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders is prohibited; • advance notice is required for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • our board of directors may designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, we are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 