Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business Inability or delayed execution on our strategy to be a leading provider of semiconductor IP platforms could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. From inception to May 2002, most of our revenues resulted from licenses to our embedded memory products. After our acquisition of In-Chip Systems, Inc. in May 2002, we were able to expand our product offering to also include logic products. In 2003, we added I/ Os to our product offering to enable us to offer what we define as a semiconductor IP platform. If our strategy to be a provider of semiconductor IP platforms is not broadly accepted by potential customers or acceptance is delayed for whatever reason, our revenues and 13 Table of Contents profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our profitability could also be adversely affected due to investment of resources towards the development and/or acquisition of logic and I/ O products and lower than anticipated revenues from the sale of such products. Factors that could prevent us from gaining market acceptance of our semiconductor IP platform include: • difficulty convincing customers of our memory products to purchase other products from us; • competition resulting in minority market share; • inability to migrate technologies to manufacturing processes at new foundries due to less design experience; • limited experience in sales and marketing of the platform strategy and knowledge of the market; and • difficulties and delays in expanding our logic and I/ O product offerings. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and any failure to meet financial expectations for any fiscal quarter may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and on an annual basis due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of Virage Logic’s control. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: • large orders unevenly spaced over time; • establishment or loss of strategic relationships with third-party semiconductor foundries; • pace of adoption of new technologies by customers; • timing of new technologies and technology enhancements by us and our competitors; • fluctuations in the demand for products that incorporate our IP; • constrained or deferred spending decisions by customers; • inability to collect trade receivables; • the timing and completion of milestones under customer agreements; • operational issues in fulfilling existing orders; • the impact of competition on license revenues or royalty rates; • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the general economic environment; • difficulties in forecasting royalty revenues because of factors out of our control, such as the timing of manufacturing of semiconductors subject to royalty obligations, the number of such semiconductors actually manufactured and the timing and results of audits of royalty reports received from our customers; • changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and our customers; • recording a significant portion of our quarterly revenues in the last month of a quarter. This is the result of closing more product orders, and therefore, a higher percentage of product shipments, in the last month of a quarter than in the first months of a quarter. Some customers believe they can enhance their bargaining power by waiting until the end of the quarter to finalize negotiations; and • costs associated with merger and acquisition plans that are not pursued. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on these comparisons as indications of future performance. These factors, together with the fact that our expenses are primarily fixed and independent of revenues in any particular period, make it difficult for us to accurately predict our revenues and operating results and may cause them to 14 Table of Contents be below market analysts’ expectations in some quarters, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly, as happened in connection with our operating results for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005. If we are unable to continue establishing relationships on favorable contractual terms with semiconductor companies to license our IP, our business will be harmed. We currently rely on license fees from the sale of perpetual and term licenses to generate a large portion of our revenues. These licenses produce large amounts of revenue in the periods in which the license fees are recognized, but are not necessarily indicative of a commensurate level of revenue from the same customers in future periods. In addition, our agreements with our customers do not obligate them to license new or future generations of our IP. As a result, the growth of our business depends significantly on our ability to expand our business with existing customers and attract new customers. We face numerous challenges in entering into license agreements with semiconductor companies on terms beneficial to our business, including: • the lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with a potential licensee; • competition with the customers’ internal design teams and other providers of semiconductor IP as our customers may evaluate these alternatives for each design; and • the need to persuade semiconductor companies to rely on us for critical technology. These factors may make it difficult for us to maintain our current relationships or establish new relationships with additional licensees. Further, there are a finite number of fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers to which we can license our IP. If we are unable to establish and maintain these relationships, we will be unable to generate license fees, and our revenues will decrease. If we are unable to maintain existing relationships and/or develop new relationships with third-party semiconductor manufacturers, or foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies on their processes and license our IP to them or their customers. Our ability to verify our technologies for new manufacturing processes depends on entering into development agreements with third-party foundries to provide us with access to these processes. In addition, we rely on third-party foundries to manufacture our silicon test chips, to provide referrals to their customer base and to help define the focus of our research and development activities. We currently have agreements with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing (Chartered), Tower Semiconductor (Tower), Silterra Malaysia (Silterra), Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) and DongbuAnam Semiconductor. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships with these foundries or enter into new agreements with other foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies for their manufacturing processes and our ability to develop products for emerging technologies will be hampered. We would then be unable to license our IP to fabless semiconductor companies that use these foundries to manufacture their silicon chips, which is a significant source of our revenues. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our royalty revenues, our revenues and profitability may not be as large as we anticipate. We have agreements with certain third-party semiconductor foundries to pay us royalties on their sales of silicon chips they manufacture for our fabless customers. Beginning with our STAR Memory System and more recently with the introduction of our NOVeA technology, in addition to collecting royalties from third-party semiconductor foundries, we intend to increase our royalty base by collecting royalties directly from our integrated device manufacturer and fabless customers. However, we may not be successful in convincing all customers to agree to pay us royalties. For the quarters ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, we recorded royalty revenues of approximately $2.8 million and $3.2 million, respectively. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, we recorded royalty revenues of approximately $11.0 million and $8.2 million, 15 Table of Contents respectively. The continued growth of our revenues depends in part on increasing our royalty revenues, but we may not be successful in increasing our royalty revenues as expected and we face difficulties in forecasting our royalty revenues because of many factors beyond our control, such as fluctuating sales volumes of products that incorporate our IP, short or unpredictable product life cycles for some customer products containing our IP, potential slow down for manufacturing of certain newer process technology, foundry rate adjustments, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry that affects the number of designs, commercial acceptance of these products, accuracy of revenue reports received from our customers and difficulties in the royalty collection process. In addition, occasionally we have completed agreements whereby significant upfront license fees are reduced or limited in exchange for higher royalty rates, which should result in future royalty revenues, but these royalty arrangements may not provide us with the anticipated benefits as sales of products incorporating our IP may not offset lower license fees. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing arrangements, and this may cause us to lose revenues or inaccurately report revenues. The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. While standard license terms give us the right to audit the books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. Our failure to audit our licensees’ books and records may result in us receiving more or less royalty revenue than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. The results of such audits could also result in an increase, as a result of a licensees’ underpayment, or decrease, as a result of a licensees’ overpayment, to royalty revenues. Such adjustments are recorded in the period they are determined. Any adverse material adjustments resulting from royalty audits may cause our revenues and operating results to be below market expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The royalty audit may also trigger disagreements over contract terms with our licensees and such disagreements could hamper customer relations, divert the efforts and attention of our management from normal operations and impact our business operations. Products that do not meet customer specifications or contain defects that harm our customers could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. The complexity and ongoing development of our products could lead to design or manufacturing problems. Our semiconductor IP products may fail to meet our customers’ technical requirements, or may contain defects, which may cause our customers to fail to complete the design and manufacturing of their products in a timely manner. Any of these problems may harm our customers’ businesses. If any of our products fail to meet specifications or have reliability or quality problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in net revenue, an increase in product returns and the loss of existing customers or failure to attract new customers. These problems may adversely affect customer relationships, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations may be adversely affected by instability in the countries in which we operate. We currently have subsidiaries or branches in Armenia, India, the United Kingdom, Israel, Germany and Japan. In addition, a significant portion of our IP is being developed in development centers located in the Republic of Armenia and India. Israel continues to face an increased level of violence and terror, India is experiencing rising costs and Armenia, only independent since 1991, has suffered significant political and economic instability. Accordingly, continued and heightened unrest in areas of the world in which we operate may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including the following: • changes in the political or economic conditions in Armenia and India and the surrounding region, such as fluctuations in exchange rates, changes in laws protecting IP, the imposition of currency transfer restrictions or limitations, or the adoption of burdensome trade or tax policies, procedures, rules, 16 Table of Contents regulations or tariffs, could adversely affect our ability to develop new products, to take advantage of the cost savings associated with operations in Armenia and India, and to otherwise conduct business effectively in Armenia and India; • our ability to continue conducting business in Israel and other countries in the normal course may be adversely affected by increased risk of social and political instability and our employees working and visiting in Israel may be affected by terrorist attacks; • our Israeli customers’ demand for our products may be adversely affected because of negative economic consequences associated with reduced levels of safety and security in Israel. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to license our IP. Sales to customers located outside North America accounted for 63%, 62% and 52% of our revenues for fiscal years 2005, 2004, 2003, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, sales to customers located outside North America accounted for 61% and 66% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside North America will increase and will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future periods. In addition, most of our customers that do not own their own fabrication plants rely on third-party foundries located outside of North America. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with doing business in international markets, including the following: • managing foreign distributors and sales partners and sharing revenues with such third-parties; • staffing and managing foreign branch offices and subsidiaries; • political and economic instability; • international conflicts or other crises, such as the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS and Avian “bird” flu; • greater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in tax laws and tariffs; • compliance with, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of IP rights in some countries; and • obtaining governmental approvals for certain technologies. If these risks actually materialize, our international operations may be adversely affected and sales to international customers, as well as those domestic customers that use foreign fabrication plants, may decrease. We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. Historically, because of the complexity of our products, it can take a significant amount of time and effort to explain the benefits of our products and to negotiate a sale. For example, it generally takes at least three to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we begin licensing our IP to that customer. In addition, purchase of our products is usually made in connection with new design starts, the timing of which are out of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, thereby foregoing other opportunities. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and our accounts receivables are concentrated among a small number of customers. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our annual revenues in each fiscal year, although the customers comprising this group have changed from time to time. No single customer generated more than 10% of our revenues for the years ended September 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003; although one customer, TSMC, generated 10.0% of fiscal 2005 revenues. Since fiscal year 2001, our five largest customers have represented between 25-45% of our revenues. The license agreements we enter into with our customers do not obligate them to license future generations of our IP and, as a result, we cannot predict if and when they will purchase additional products from us. As a result of this customer concentration, we could experience a dramatic reduction in our revenues if we lose one or more of our significant customers and are unable to replace them. In addition, since our accounts receivable are concentrated in a relatively small number of customers, a significant change in the liquidity, financial position, or issues regarding timing of payments of any one of these customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable, historical revenues recorded and our future operating results. We may have difficulty returning to profitability and may experience additional losses in the future. We recorded a net loss of $0.4 million for fiscal 2005 and lost $2.3 million for the last three quarters of fiscal 2005. The losses recorded in fiscal 2005 were due principally to increased operating costs and decreased license revenues as compared to 2004 caused by what we believe to be fewer project design starts by fabless semiconductor customers on the 0.13 micron technology and the slower than anticipated industry adoption of the 90- and 65-nanometer process technologies. In order to maintain and improve our profitability, we will need to continue to generate new sales while controlling our costs. As we plan on continuing the growth of our business while implementing cost control measures, we may not be able to successfully generate enough revenues to return to profitability with this growth. Any failure to increase our revenues and control costs as we pursue our planned growth would harm our profitability and would likely negatively affect the market price of our stock. In addition, if we incurred losses for a sustained period we may be prevented from being able to fully utilize our deferred tax asset which will result in the need for a valuation allowance to be recorded. We may be unable to deliver our customized memory, logic and I/ O products in the time-frame demanded by our customers, which could damage our reputation and future sales. A portion of our contracts require us to provide customized products to our customers within a specified delivery timetable. While we have experienced delays in delivering products to our customers, the duration of these delays have typically been short in length so as to not materially damage our relationship with our customers. However, these delays did adversely impact our operations during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2005. Future failures to meet significant customer milestones could damage our reputation in our industry and harm our ability to attract new customers. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel who are critical to the success of our business. We believe that one of our significant competitive advantages is the size and quality of our engineering team. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and senior managers. In addition, in order to meet our planned growth projections, we may be required to increase our sales force, both domestic and international, with qualified employees. Hiring qualified technical, sales and management personnel is difficult due to a limited number of qualified professionals and competition in our industry for these types of employees. We have in the past experienced delays and difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel and believe that at times our employees are recruited aggressively by our competitors and start-up companies. Our employees are “at will” and may leave our employment at any time, and under certain circumstances, start-up companies can offer more attractive stock option packages than we offer. As a result, we may experience significant employee turnover. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel would make it difficult for us to develop and market our technologies. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key personnel, including Adam A. Kablanian, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Alexander Shubat, our Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Technical Officer. We do not have formal employment agreements with Mr. Kablanian or Dr. Shubat and do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on their lives. If Mr. Kablanian or Dr. Shubat were to leave or become unable to perform services for our company, our business could be severely harmed. We may need additional capital that may not be available to us and, if raised, may dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest in us. We may need to raise additional funds to develop or enhance our technologies, to fund expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. Additional financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced and these securities might have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our ability to manage our business successfully in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. Our customers rely heavily on our technological expertise in designing and testing our products. Relationships with new customers may require significant engineering resources. As a result, any increase in the demand for our products will increase the strain on our personnel, particularly our engineers. Our historical growth, international expansion, and our strategy of being a provider of semiconductor IP platforms, have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial and financial resources as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Although some new controls, systems and procedures have been implemented, our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls. Our inability to manage any future growth effectively would be harmful to our revenues and profitability. Risk Related to Our Industry If demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP platforms does not increase, our business may be harmed. Our business and the adoption and continued use of our IP by semiconductor companies depends on the demand for products requiring complex semiconductors, embedded memories and logic elements, such as cellular and digital phones, MP3 players, PDAs, digital cameras, DVD players, switches and modems. The demand for such products is uncertain and difficult to predict, and it depends on factors beyond our control such as the competition faced by each customer, market acceptance of products that incorporate our IP and the financial and other resources of each customer. A reduction in the demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP or in the general economic environment which results in the cutback of research and development budgets or capital expenditures would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. In addition, with increasing complexity in each successive generation of semiconductors, we face the risk that the rate of adoption of smaller technology processes may slow. In addition, the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has fluctuated between significant economic downturns characterized by diminished demand, erosion of average selling prices and production overcapacity, as well as periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. Until recently, the semiconductor industry has been experiencing a downturn during a significant economic slowdown resulting in 19 Table of Contents lower levels of technology expenditures by businesses and individuals. As a result of such fluctuations in the semiconductor industry and the general economic slowdown, we may face a reduced number of design starts, tightening of customers’ operating budgets, extensions of the approval process for new orders and projects and consolidation among our customers, all of which may harm the demand for our products and may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. Further, the markets for third-party semiconductor IP have emerged only in recent years. Because of the recent emergence of these markets, it is difficult to forecast whether these markets will continue to develop or grow at a rate sufficient to support our business. The market for semiconductor IP platforms is highly competitive, and we may lose market share to larger competitors with greater resources and to companies that develop their semiconductor IP platforms using internal design teams. We face competition from both existing suppliers of third-party semiconductor IP as well as new suppliers that may enter the market. We also compete with the internal design teams of large, integrated device manufacturers. Many of these internal design teams have substantial programming and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal teams may develop technologies that compete directly with our technologies or may actively seek to license their own technologies to third parties, which could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and larger customer bases, as well as greater financial and marketing resources, than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their products. In addition, the intense competition in the market for semiconductor IP can result in pricing pressures, reduced license revenues, reduced margins or lost market share, any of which can harm our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. The technology used in the semiconductor industry is rapidly changing and if we are unable to develop new technologies and adapt our existing IP to new processes, we will be unable to attract or retain customers. The semiconductor industry has been characterized by an increasingly rapid rate of development of new technologies and manufacturing processes, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner, and to adapt our existing IP to satisfy the requirements of new processes and our customers. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the enhancements or new generations of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to attract or retain customers and our operating results could be harmed. Our ability to continue developing technical innovations involves several risks, including: • our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies; • the emergence of new semiconductor manufacturing processes and our ability to enter into strategic relationships with third-party semiconductor foundries to develop and test technologies for these new processes and provide customer referrals; • the significant research and development investment that we may be required to make before market acceptance, if any, of a particular technology; • the possibility that the industry may not accept a new technology or may delay use of a new technology after we have invested a significant amount of resources to develop it; and • new technologies introduced by our competitors. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately address these risks, our IP will become obsolete and we will be unable to sell our products. Further, as new technologies or manufacturing processes are announced, customers may defer licensing our IP until those new technologies become available or our IP has been adopted for that manufacturing process. In addition, research and development requires a significant expense and resource commitment. Since we have a limited operating history, we are unable to predict our future resource requirements. As a result, we may not have the financial and other resources necessary to develop the technologies demanded in the future and may be unable to attract or retain customers. General economic conditions and future terrorist attacks may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Efforts in the war against terrorism, the war in Iraq, and the post-war reconstruction efforts in Iraq may have affected economic recovery in the United States and in other parts of the world. Many industries are still delaying or reducing technology purchases and investments. In addition, our customers may delay payment for Virage Logic. In addition, continued unrest in Israel and the Middle East may negatively impact the investments that our worldwide customers make in these geographic regions. The impact of this slowdown on us is difficult to predict, but if businesses or consumers defer or cancel purchases of new products that contain complex semiconductors, purchases by fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers and production levels by semiconductor manufacturers could decline causing our revenues to be adversely affected, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Risk Related to Our Intellectual Property Rights If we are not able to protect our IP adequately, we will have less proprietary technology to license, which will reduce our revenues and profits. Our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other IP are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, mask work and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office will issue patents or trademark registrations for any of our pending applications. Further, any patents or trademark rights that we hold or may hold in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We have not attempted to secure patent protection in foreign countries, and the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our IP as well as the laws of the United States. Also, the portion of our IP developed outside of the United States may not receive the same copyright protection that it would receive if it was developed in the United States. As we increase our international presence, we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor the development of competing technologies that may infringe on our rights as well as unauthorized use of our technologies. We use licensing agreements, confidentiality agreements and employee nondisclosure and assignment agreements to limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information and to obtain ownership of technology prepared on a work-for-hire basis. Even though we have taken all customary industry precautions, we cannot be sure that we have taken adequate steps to protect our IP rights and deter misappropriation of these rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take immediate or effective steps to enforce our rights. Since we also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect some of our proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose that technology. We also cannot be sure that we can ultimately protect our rights to our unpatented proprietary technology. In addition, third parties might obtain patent rights to such unpatented trade secrets, which they could use to assert infringement claims against us. 21 Table of Contents Third parties may claim we are infringing or assisting others to infringe their IP rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from licensing our technology. While we do not believe that our technology or the conduct of our business infringes the valid IP rights of third parties, we may be unaware of IP rights of others that may cover some of our technology. As a result, third parties may claim we or our customers are infringing their IP rights. Our license agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers for infringement actions related to our technology. Any litigation regarding patents or other IP could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved makes any outcome uncertain. If we do not prevail in any infringement action, we may be required to pay significant damages and may be prevented from developing some of our technology or from licensing some of our IP for certain manufacturing processes unless we enter into a royalty or license agreement. In addition, if challenging a claim is not feasible, we might be required to enter into royalty or license agreements in order to settle a claim and continue to license or develop our IP, which may result in significant expenditures. We may not be able to obtain such agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all, and thus, may be prevented from licensing or developing our technology. Risk Related to Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: • variations between our operating results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; • sale of our common stock or other securities in the future; • the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories, especially as compared to the investment profiles of our stockholders at a given time; • changes in economic and capital market conditions; • changes in business regulatory conditions; and • the trading volume of our common stock. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to remediate these weaknesses could impact the reliability of our financial reporting. As of September 30, 2005, we did not maintain effective controls over our period end financial reporting process. Specifically, we failed to maintain effective controls over: (i) the calculation and recording of foreign exchange translation, (ii) the presentation and disclosures of income taxes and (iii) the presentation and disclosure of investments. These control deficiencies resulted in adjustments to our 2005 annual consolidated financial statements to correct other comprehensive income, research and development expense, deferred tax asset, income tax payable, income tax expense, and the disclosures of the purchase of investments and the proceeds from maturity of investments. The impact of these adjustments resulted in a revision of our previously reported net loss per share by $0.02, from $(0.03) to $(0.01) for the year ended September 30, 2005, and will change the net income per share for the three month period ended September 30, 2005 from $(0.00) to $0.01. Accordingly, management has determined that the control deficiencies described in (i) through (iii) above constitute material weaknesses. As a result of these material weaknesses, we have 22 Table of Contents determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005. Although we have begun to remediate these deficiencies by implementing changes to our control environment, the process is not yet complete. Consequently, there remains a risk that the transitional procedures on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. The ineffectiveness of these remedial measures, or a delay in their implementation, could affect the accuracy or timing of our future filings with the SEC or other regulatory authorities. See our disclosure in “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” included under Item 9A for further discussion of these matters. We will be required to record compensation expense in connection with stock option grants, therefore our profitability may be reduced significantly. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has recently issued an accounting standard that will require the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees be recognized in the income statement as compensation expense. The various methods for determining the fair value of stock options are based on, among other things, the volatility of the underlying stock. Our stock price has historically been volatile. Therefore, the adoption of an accounting standard requiring companies to expense stock options could negatively affect our profitability and may adversely affect our stock price. Such adoption could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. FASB issued final rules on stock option expensing in December 2004 with an effective date for the Company of October 2005. We are currently studying the impact this ruling will have on the operating results of the Company. Changes to accounting standards and rules could either delay our recognition of revenues or reduce the amount of revenues that we may recognize at a specific time, and thus defer or reduce our profitability. These effects on our reported results could cause our stock price to be lower than it otherwise might have been. We adopted the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position, or SOP, 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition,” as of October 1, 1998. In December 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued SOP 98-9, “Modification of SOP 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions.” We implemented these provisions as of October 1, 1999. In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements” which summarizes certain of the SEC’s views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. Additional accounting guidance or pronouncements in the future could affect the timing of our revenue recognition in the future, which could cause our operating results to fail to meet the expectations of investors and securities analysts. In addition, changes to accounting policies that affect other aspects of our business may adversely affect our reported financial results. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to discourage, delay or prevent change in control. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • our board of directors is staggered into 3 classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; 23 Table of Contents • nominations for election to our board of directors and the submission of matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting are subject to advance notice requirements; • certain provisions in our bylaws and certificate may only be amended with the approval of stockholders holding 80% of our outstanding voting stock; • the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders is prohibited; and • our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in any “business combination” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we are investing resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 