RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information concerning Publicis Groupe and its consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, before investing in the shares or other securities of Publicis Groupe. Each of the risk factors described below may have a negative impact on the Group’s earnings, financial condition and share price. Other risks and uncertainties of which Publicis is not aware or which are not currently deemed to be significant, could also have a negative impact on Publicis. The advertising and communications industry is highly competitive. The advertising and communications industry is highly competitive and we expect it to remain so. Our competitors run the gamut from large multinational companies to smaller agencies that operate in local or regional markets. New participants also include systems integrators, database marketing and modeling companies, telemarketers and internet companies offering technological solutions to marketing and communications issues faced by clients. We must compete with these companies and agencies to maintain existing client relationships and to obtain new clients and assignments. Increased competition could have a negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our operations. The advertising and communications industry is subject to downturns in general economic conditions, changes in clients’ underlying businesses and decreases in marketing budgets. Downturns in general economic conditions can have a more severe impact on the advertising and communications industry than on other industries, in part because clients may respond to economic downturns by reducing their advertising and communications budgets in order to meet their earnings goals. For this reason, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by a downturn in general economic conditions in one or more markets and a reduction in client budgets for advertising and communications. Laws, regulations or voluntary codes applying in the sectors in which we operate may have an impact on our business. The communications sector in which we operate is subject to legislation, regulation and voluntary codes of conduct. Governments, regulatory authorities and consumer groups regularly propose prohibitions or restrictions on the advertising of certain products and services or the regulation of certain business that we conducted, such as the Loi Sapin in France, which prohibits agencies from buying advertising space for resale to their clients, and, in most countries, regulations which tend to restrict the advertising of alcohol and tobacco. The adoption or changes in such regulations could have a negative impact on our business and earnings. Our contracts with clients may be terminated on short notice. Clients may terminate their client-agency contract either on relatively short notice, generally between three and six months, or on the anniversary date of the contract’s signing. Some clients also put their advertising and communications contracts up for competitive bidding at regular intervals. In addition, there is a general tendency for advertisers to reduce the number of agencies with which they work in order to concentrate spending on a limited number of leading agencies, which increases competition and the risk of losing a client. Finally, the ongoing consolidation of clients around the world increases the risk of losing a client following a merger. A significant portion of our revenues comes from large clients. Our top five and ten clients represented approximately 25% and 35%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue in 2006. One or several of these large clients may decide to switch advertising and communications agencies or to reduce or even stop spending on advertising at any time for any reason. A substantial decline in the advertising and communications spending of our major clients or the loss of any of these accounts could have a negative impact on our business and earnings. 10 Conflicts of interest between our clients who compete with each other in the same business sector may negatively impact our business development. The Group has several different agency networks, which tends to limit potential conflicts of interest. However, unless the client’s consent is obtained, an agency may not offer its services to a competitor of that client or an advertiser perceived as such. This could negatively impact our growth and have a negative impact on our business and earnings. We may be exposed to liabilities from allegations that certain of our clients’ advertising claims may be false or misleading or that our clients’ products may be defective. We may be, or may be joined as, a defendant in litigation brought against our clients by third parties, our clients’ competitors, governmental or regulatory authorities or consumers. These actions could involve claims alleging, among other things, that: advertising claims made with respect to our clients’ products or services are false, deceptive or misleading; our clients’ products are defective or injurious and may be harmful to the others; or marketing, communications or advertising materials created for our clients infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties since client-agency contracts generally provide that the agency agrees to indemnify the client against claims for infringement of intellectual or industrial property rights. The damages, costs, expenses or attorneys’ fees arising from any of these claims could have an adverse effect on our prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition to the extent that we are not adequately insured against such risks or indemnified by our clients. In any case, the reputation of our agencies may be negatively affected by such allegations. Our business is highly dependent on the services of our management and our employees. The advertising and communications industry is known for a high mobility among its professionals. If we lose the services of certain management members and other employees, our business and results could be harmed. Our success is highly dependent upon both the skills of our creators, sales representatives and media personnel, as well as on their relationships with our clients. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain additional key personnel, or if we were unable to retain and motivate our existing key personnel, our prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our strategy of development through acquisitions and investments can be risky. Our business strategy includes, among other things, enhancing the range of our existing advertising and communications services. We have made a number of acquisitions and other investments in furtherance of this strategy and may make additional acquisitions and investments in the future. The identification of acquisition candidates is difficult and we may not correctly assess the risks related to such acquisitions and investments. In addition, acquisitions could be effected on terms less satisfactory to us than expected and the newly acquired companies may not be successfully integrated into our existing operations or in a way that produces the synergies or other benefits we hope to achieve. This could adversely affect our earnings. Goodwill on acquisitions and intangible assets, including brands and client relationships, accounted for on the balance sheets of acquired companies may be subject to adjustment. We have a large amount of goodwill on our balance sheet reflecting our acquisitions. Due to the nature of our business, our most important assets are intangible assets. We conduct annual appraisals of goodwill on acquisitions to determine whether value has been impaired. The assumptions used to estimate future earnings and cash flows for the purpose of these valuations may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ. If we were to recognize such value impairments, the resulting loss in book value could have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition. We may not achieve announced numerical targets. We have publicly announced a number of financial and operating targets related to growth and operating margin rate, among other things. Our targets are used for internal purposes to assess performance, but should not be considered as projections or guidance as to 11 what we expect actual results to be. Our ability to achieve these targets is subject to a number of risks and other factors, including, among other things, the risks described in this Item 3 "Key Information — Risk Factors,” and in Item 5 "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Overview and Outlook.” We are exposed to a number of risks from operating in developing countries. We conduct business in a number of developing countries around the world. The risks associated with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices, nationalization, social, political and economic instability, increased currency exchange risk and currency repatriation restrictions. We may not be able to insure or hedge against these risks. In addition, commercial laws and regulations, which may apply in many of these countries, can be vague, arbitrary, contradictory, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. It is, therefore, difficult to determine with certainty at all times the exact requirements of these laws and regulations. Non-compliance, true or alleged, with applicable laws in developing countries could have a negative impact on our prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. Since 2005, we have had credit ratings, which are currently BBB+ from Standard & Poor’s, and Baa2 from Moody’s Investors Service. Any ratings downgrade may adversely affect our ability to access capital on the same terms as we have currently and would likely result in higher interest rates on any future indebtedness. Some provisions of our statuts (by-laws) may make takeovers more difficult. Our statuts (by-laws) provide double voting rights for shares owned by any shareholder in registered form for at least two years. Our shareholders have also authorized our Management Board to increase our capital in response to a third-party tender offer for our shares. These circumstances could have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control of our company without the consent of our current management. We are subject to corporate disclosure standards that are less demanding than those applicable to some U.S. companies. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholders’ meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of non-U.S. issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about our company than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the U.S. 