Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. We May be Adversely Affected by Weather Conditions Our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Sales of our outerwear and cold weather footwear are dependent in part on the weather and may decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. For example, in certain prior fall seasons, unseasonably warm weather in the United States caused customers to delay, and in some cases reduce or cancel, orders for our outerwear, which had an adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Inventory accumulation by retailers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season may negatively affect orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. We May be Adversely Affected by an Economic Downturn or Economic Uncertainty Sales of our products are subject to substantial cyclical fluctuation. Consumer demand for our products may not reach our growth targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets, particularly markets in North America and Europe. For example, a slower economy in the United States in 2002 and 2003 created additional uncertainties for our customers and our business. In addition, continued volatility in the global oil markets has resulted in rising fuel prices, which shipping companies may pass on to us. Because we price our products to our customers in advance and external cost increases may be difficult to anticipate, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. Rising oil prices and interest rates may also adversely affect consumer demand. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand and rising shipping and other costs may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our International Operations Involve Many Risks We are subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad. These risks include foreign laws and regulations, foreign consumer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. In addition, disease outbreaks, terrorist acts and U.S. military operations have increased the risks of doing business abroad. These factors, among others, may affect our ability to sell products in international markets, our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States or into our other sales markets. For example, the European Commission recently imposed additional duties on certain leather footwear imported into Europe from Vietnam and China. These duties may significantly affect the sale of our footwear in Europe. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, antidumping penalties or other charges or restrictions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We May be Adversely Affected by the Financial Health of Retailers We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of a customer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we 11 Table of Contents offer customers discounts for placing pre-season orders and extended payment terms for taking delivery before the peak shipping season. These extended payment terms increase our exposure to the risk of uncollectible receivables. In addition, we face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. Some of our significant customers have had financial difficulties in the past, which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. A slowing economy in our key markets may also have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Operate in Very Competitive Markets The markets for outerwear, sportswear, footwear, related accessories and equipment are highly competitive, as are the markets for our licensed products. In each of our geographic markets, we face significant competition from global and regional branded apparel, footwear, accessories and equipment companies. Retailers who are our customers often pose our most significant competitive threat by marketing apparel, footwear and equipment under their own labels. For example, in 2006 our Europe business was negatively affected by a key customer’s decision to expand its private label program, which resulted in reduced outerwear and footwear orders from that key customer. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent manufacturers that produce our products and for import quota capacity. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us, have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have, and have achieved greater recognition for their products than we have. Increased competition may result in reductions in display areas in retail locations, reductions in sales, or reductions in our profit margins, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We May be Adversely Affected by Retailer Consolidation When retailers combine their operations through mergers, acquisitions, or other transactions, their consolidated order volume may decrease while their bargaining power and the competitive threat they pose by marketing products under their own label may increase. Some of our significant customers have consolidated their operations in the past, which in turn has had a negative effect on our business. We expect retailer consolidation to continue, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Face Risks Associated with Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends Changes in consumer preferences or consumer interest in outdoor activities may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, although we believe that our products have not been significantly affected by past fashion trends, changes in fashion trends may have a greater impact as we expand our offerings to include more product categories in more geographic areas. We also face risks because our business requires us to anticipate consumer preferences. Our decisions about product designs often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. Although we try to manage our inventory risk through early order commitments by retailers, we must generally place production orders with manufacturers before we have received all of a season’s orders, and orders may be cancelled by retailers before shipment. If we fail to anticipate and respond to consumer preferences, we may have lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Success Depends on Our Use of Proprietary Rights Our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and are important to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products. We also place significant value on our trade dress, the overall appearance and image of our products. From time to time, we discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or design “knock offs,” or that otherwise infringe on our proprietary rights. Counterfeiting activities typically increase as brand recognition increases, especially in markets outside the United States. If we are 12 Table of Contents unsuccessful in challenging a party’s products on the basis of trademark or design infringement, continued sales of these products may adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. Additionally, in markets outside of the United States, it may be more difficult for us to establish our proprietary rights and to successfully challenge use of those rights by other parties. Actions or decisions in the management of our intellectual property portfolio may affect the strength of the brand, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although we have not been materially inhibited from selling products in connection with trademark and trade dress disputes, as we extend our brand into new product categories and new product lines and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, we may become subject to litigation based on allegations of the infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties including third party copyright and patent rights. Future litigation also may be necessary to defend us against such claims or to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation may result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Success Depends on Our Distribution Facilities Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties (including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities). In the United States, we rely primarily on our distribution centers in Portland, Oregon and Robards, Kentucky; in Canada, we rely primarily on our distribution center in Strathroy, Ontario; and in Europe we rely primarily on our distribution center in Cambrai, France. Our distribution facilities in the United States and France are highly automated, which means that their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions, and other system failures. In 2007, we are continuing to upgrade our Portland distribution center. Risks associated with upgrading or expanding these facilities may significantly disrupt or increase the cost of our operations. Our distribution facilities may also be interrupted by disasters, such as earthquakes (which are known to occur in the Northwestern United States) or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that may be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. Our Success Depends on Our Information Systems Our business is increasingly reliant on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our production cycle, from design to distribution, and are used as a method of communication between employees, with our subsidiaries and liaison offices overseas, as well as with our customers. We also rely on our information systems to allocate resources and forecast operating results. System failures or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or our failure to properly protect, repair, maintain, or upgrade our systems. Any interruption of critical business information systems may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our Success Depends on Our Growth Strategies We face many challenges in implementing our growth strategies. For example, our expansion into international markets involves countries where we have little sales or distribution experience and where our brands are not yet widely known. Expanding our product categories involves, among other things, gaining experience with new brands and products, gaining consumer acceptance, and establishing and protecting intellectual property rights. Increasing sales to department stores and improving the sales productivity of our customers will each depend on various factors, including strength of our brand names, competitive conditions, our ability to manage increased sales and future expansion, the availability of desirable locations and the negotiation of terms with retailers. Future terms with customers may be less favorable to us than those under which we now operate. Large retailers in particular increasingly seek to transfer various costs of business to their vendors, such as the cost of lost profits from product price markdowns. To implement our business strategy, we must manage growth effectively. We must continue to modify various aspects of our business, to maintain and enhance our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand and to attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. Growth may place an increasing strain on management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we may have operating difficulties as a result. For example, in recent years, we have undertaken a number of new initiatives that require significant management attention and corporate resources, including the development or expansion of distribution facilities on two continents, the acquisition, rejuvenation and expansion of the Sorel and Pacific Trail brands, and the acquisition, integration and expansion of Mountain Hardwear, Inc. and the Montrail brand. This growth involves many risks and uncertainties that, if not managed effectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We May be Adversely Affected by Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Although we generally purchase products in U.S. dollars, the cost of these products, which are generally produced overseas, may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses may be materially affected by currency fluctuations, including amounts recorded in foreign currencies and translated into U.S. dollars for consolidated financial reporting. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We May be Adversely Affected by Labor Disruptions Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. Labor disputes at factories, shipping ports, transportation carriers, or distribution centers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak manufacturing and importing seasons, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. We Depend on Independent Manufacturers Our products are produced by independent manufacturers worldwide. We do not operate or own any production facilities. Although we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season, we generally do not maintain long-term manufacturing contracts. Because of these factors, manufacturing operations may fail to perform as expected or our competitors may obtain production or quota capacities that effectively limit or eliminate the availability of these resources to us. If a manufacturer fails to ship orders in a timely manner or to 14 Table of Contents meet our standards or if we are unable to obtain necessary production or quota capacities, we may miss delivery deadlines, or incur additional costs, which may result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, a reduction in purchase prices, or increased costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Reliance on independent manufacturers also creates quality control risks. A failure in our quality control program may result in diminished product quality, which may result in increased order cancellations and returns and decreased consumer demand for our products, which may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Finally, if a manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or engages in practices that are not generally accepted as ethical in our key markets, we may be subject to significant negative publicity, consumer demand for our products may decrease, and under some circumstances we may be subject to liability for the manufacturer’s practices, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Key Suppliers Some of the materials that we use may be available from only one source or a very limited number of sources. For example, some specialty fabrics are manufactured to our specification by one source or a few sources and zippers are supplied by one manufacturer. From time to time, we have difficulty satisfying our raw material and finished goods requirements. Although we believe that we can identify and qualify additional manufacturers to produce these materials as necessary, there are no guarantees that additional manufactures will be available. In addition, depending on the timing, any changes may result in increased costs or production delays, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Advance Purchases of Products May Result in Excess Inventories To minimize our purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery, we place orders for our products with manufacturers prior to receiving all of our customers’ orders and we maintain an inventory of various products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. We may not be able to sell the products we have ordered from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Customers are allowed to cancel an order prior to shipment with sufficient notice. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We Depend on Key Personnel Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel, particularly Timothy Boyle, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Gertrude Boyle, our Chairman and widely-recognized advertising spokesperson. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, designers, sales people and others. We face intense competition for these individuals worldwide, and there is a significant concentration of well-funded apparel and footwear competitors in and around Portland, Oregon (including NIKE, Inc. and adidas AG). We may not be able to attract qualified new employees or retain existing employees, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Business Is Affected by Seasonality Our results of operations are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our products are marketed on a seasonal basis; our results of operations for the quarter ended September 30 in the past have been much stronger than the results for the other quarters. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control, and that are discussed elsewhere in this section, may adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Our operating margins are also sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including shifts in product sales mix, geographic sales trends, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, all of which we expect to continue as we expand our product offerings and geographic penetration. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. 15 Table of Contents We Face Risks of Product Liability and Warranty Claims Our products are used in outdoor activities, sometimes in severe conditions. Although we have not incurred any significant expense as the result of product recalls or product liability claims, recalls or claims in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Some of our products carry warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We maintain a warranty reserve for future warranty claims, but the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve, which may also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Common Stock Price May Be Volatile The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is likely to continue to have significant price and volume fluctuations that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Factors such as fluctuations in financial results, variances from financial market expectations, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or announcements by us or our competitors may also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Insiders Control a Majority of Our Common Stock and May Sell Shares Three shareholders— Timothy Boyle, Gertrude Boyle and Sarah Bany— beneficially own a majority of our common stock. As a result, if acting together, they can effectively control matters requiring shareholder approval without the cooperation of other shareholders. Shares held by these three insiders are available for resale, subject to the requirements of, and the rules under, the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The sale or the prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 