ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing MicroStrategy. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our quarterly operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock For a number of reasons, including those described below, our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our class A common stock. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, in part, as a result of: • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments; • the mix of products and services of customer orders, which can affect whether we recognize revenue upon the signing and delivery of our software products or whether revenue must be recognized as work progresses or over the entire contract period; 17 • the timing of new product announcements by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of business intelligence software generally and of new and enhanced versions of our products in particular; • the length of our sales cycles; • changes in our operating expenses; • personnel changes; • our use of direct and indirect distribution channels; • utilization of our consulting and education services, which can be affected by delays or deferrals of customer implementation of our software products; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • our profitability and expectations for future profitability and its effect on our deferred tax assets and net income for the period in which any adjustment to our net deferred tax asset valuation allowance may be made; • seasonal factors, such as our traditionally lower pace of new sales in the summer; and • changes in customer budgets. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. Many of our expenses, such as office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our class A common stock may fall. The trading price for our class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile The trading price of our class A common stock historically has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our class A common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • any major change in our board or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the likelihood of which may be enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance relating to our anticipated financial performance in future periods; 18 • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • the volume of shares of class A common stock available for public sale; • sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving shares of our class A common stock; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We face the risk of a decrease in our cash balances and losses in our investment portfolio Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world. A portion of our cash is invested in marketable securities as part of our investment portfolio. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations and macroeconomic conditions could cause our cash balances to fluctuate and losses in our investment portfolio. Most amounts held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, less applicable foreign tax credits. Revenue recognition accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported results of operations We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements. Depending upon the outcome of these ongoing reviews and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our existing revenue recognition policies are described in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition.” We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of jurisdictions and our tax structure is subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment. Moreover, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. If the market for business intelligence software fails to grow as we expect, or if businesses fail to adopt our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Nearly all of our revenues to date have come from sales of business intelligence software and related technical support, consulting and education services. We expect these sales to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Although demand for business intelligence software has grown in recent years, the market for business intelligence software applications is still emerging. Resistance from consumer and privacy groups to increased commercial collection and use of data on spending patterns and other personal behavior and European and other governmental restrictions on the collection and use of personal data may impair the further growth of this market, as may other developments. We cannot be sure that this market will continue to 19 grow or, even if it does grow, that businesses will adopt our solutions. We have spent, and intend to keep spending, considerable resources to educate potential customers about business intelligence software in general and our solutions in particular. However, we cannot be sure that these expenditures will help our products achieve any additional market acceptance. If the market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently expect, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Business disruptions could affect our operating results A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a single geographic area. We are also a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major earthquake, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We use strategic channel partners and if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected In addition to our direct sales force, we use strategic channel partners such as value-added resellers, system integrators and original equipment manufacturers to license and support our products. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 channel partners accounted for 21.8%, 19.3% and 24.6%, respectively, of our total product licenses revenues. Our channel partners generally offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. Because our channel partners generally do not have an exclusive relationship with us, we cannot be certain that they will prioritize or provide adequate resources to selling our products. Moreover, divergence in strategy or contract defaults by any of these channel partners may materially adversely affect our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products. Although we believe that direct sales will continue to account for a majority of product licenses revenues, we seek to maintain a significant level of indirect sales activities through our strategic channel partners. There can be no assurance that our strategic partners will continue to cooperate with us when our distribution agreements expire or are up for renewal. In addition, there can be no assurance that actions taken or omitted to be taken by such parties will not adversely affect us. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our strategic partners. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these strategic partners, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our recognition of deferred revenue and advance payments is subject to future performance obligations and may not be representative of revenues for succeeding periods Our current and long-term deferred revenue and advance payments were $47.4 million as of December 31, 2005. The timing and ultimate recognition of our deferred revenue and advance payments depend on various factors, including our performance of various service obligations. Because of the possibility of customer changes in development schedules, delays in implementation and development efforts and the need to satisfactorily perform product support services, deferred revenue and advance payments at any particular date may not be representative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future We generated net income for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004; however, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $112.9 million. If operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly or revenues fall below our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition 20 may be materially and adversely affected. We have significant deferred tax assets, and if we are unable to sustain profitability, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets, which would result in a charge that would adversely affect net income in the period in which the charge is incurred. Managing our international operations is complex and our failure to do so successfully or in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition We receive a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales from foreign direct and indirect operations. International sales accounted for 38.4%, 40.7% and 34.0% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • tariffs, export restrictions and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products; • lack of acceptance of localized products; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • difficulties in and costs of staffing, managing and operating our international operations; • tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings; • weaker intellectual property protection; • economic weakness or currency related crises; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of laws (including labor laws); • generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • our ability to adapt to sales practices and customer requirements in different cultures; and • political instability in the countries where we are doing business. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may lose sales, or sales may be delayed, due to the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, which could reduce our revenues To date, our customers have typically invested substantial time, money and other resources and involved many people in the decision to license our software products and purchase our consulting and other services. As a result, we may wait nine months or more after the first contact with a customer for that customer to place an order while it seeks internal approval for the purchase of our products and/or services. During this long sales cycle, events may occur that affect the size and/or timing of the order or even cause it to be canceled. For example, our competitors may introduce new products, or the customer’s own budget and purchasing priorities may change. Even after an order is placed, the time it takes to deploy our products and complete consulting engagements can vary widely. Implementing our product can take several months, depending on the customer’s needs, and may begin only with a pilot program. It may be difficult to deploy our products if the customer has complicated 21 deployment requirements, which typically involve integrating databases, hardware and software from different vendors. If a customer hires a third party to deploy our products, we cannot be sure that our products will be deployed successfully. Our customers include the U.S. government and a number of other U.S. state and local governments or agencies Procurement. Contracting with public sector customers is highly competitive and can be time-consuming and expensive, requiring that we incur significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract. Budgetary Constraints and Cycles. Demand and payment for our products and services are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability, with funding reductions or delays adversely impacting public sector demand for our products and services. Modification or Cancellation of Contracts. Public sector customers often have contractual or other legal rights to terminate current contracts for convenience or due to a default. If a contract is cancelled for convenience, which can occur if the customer’s product needs change, we may only be able to collect for products and services delivered prior to termination. If a contract is cancelled because of default, we may only be able to collect for products and services delivered, and we may be forced to pay any costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products and services. Governmental Audits. U.S. government and other state and local agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors. If these audits determine that we have failed to comply with any of the complex laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of fees, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. We face intense competition, which may lead to lower prices for our products, reduced gross margins, loss of market share and reduced revenue The markets for business intelligence software, analytical applications and information delivery are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, many companies in these markets are offering, or may soon offer, products and services that may compete with MicroStrategy products. MicroStrategy faces competitors in several broad categories, including business intelligence software, analytical processes, query and web-based reporting tools, and report delivery. Our competitors that are primarily focused on business intelligence products include, among others, Actuate, Business Objects, Cognos, Hyperion Solutions, Information Builders and the SAS Institute. We also compete with large software corporations, including suppliers of enterprise resource planning software that provide one or more capabilities competitive with our products, including IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP AG and others. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business intelligence industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to meet the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. By doing so, they may increase their ability to meet the needs of our potential 22 customers. Our current or prospective indirect channel partners may establish cooperative relationships with our current or future competitors. These relationships may limit our ability to sell our products through specific distribution channels. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among current and future competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain technical support revenues from our installed customer base. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could impair our software, delay implementation of our products, or force us to pay higher license fees We license third-party technologies that we incorporate into our existing products. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to license third-party software for future products. In addition, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms. Changes in or the loss of third party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing or to our software products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced, with the result that we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products, and we may experience a decreased demand for our products. We depend on revenue from a single suite of products Our MicroStrategy 8 suite of products accounts for a substantial portion of our revenue. Because of this revenue concentration, our business could be harmed by a decline in demand for, or in the prices of, our MicroStrategy 8 software as a result of, among other factors, any change in our pricing model, increased competition, a maturation in the markets for these products or other risks described in this document. If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel, particularly Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sanju K. Bansal, our Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. If we lose the services of one or both of these individuals or other key personnel, or if we are unable to attract, train, assimilate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition In addition to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we have been subject to other litigation. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that it is probable, we record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the related cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to develop and release product enhancements and new products to respond to rapid technological change in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changing customer demands and evolving industry standards. The introduction 23 of products embodying new technologies can quickly make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We believe that our future success depends largely on three factors: • our ability to continue to support a number of popular operating systems and databases; • our ability to maintain and improve our current product line; and • our ability to rapidly develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Business intelligence applications are inherently complex, and it can take a long time and require significant research and development expenditures to develop and test new products and product enhancements. In addition, customers may delay their purchasing decisions because they anticipate that new or enhanced versions of our products will soon become available. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change or new customer requirements, nor can we be sure that any new products and product enhancements will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, even if we introduce such a product, we may experience a decline in revenues of our existing products that is not fully matched by the new product’s revenue. In addition, we may lose existing customers who choose a competitor’s product rather than migrate to our new product. This could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and materially affect our business. The emergence of new industry standards may adversely affect the demand for our existing products The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our existing products. This could happen, for example, if new web standards and technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our products. MicroStrategy currently supports SQL and MDX standards in database access technology. If we are unable to adapt our products on a timely basis to new standards in database access technology, the ability of MicroStrategy’s products to access customer databases could be impaired. In addition, the emergence of new standards in the field of operating system support could adversely affect the demand for our existing products. MicroStrategy technology is currently compatible with nearly all major operating systems, including, among others, Windows Server, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HP’s HP-UX and Redhat Linux AS. If a different operating system were to gain widespread acceptance, we may not be able to achieve compatibility on a timely basis, resulting in an adverse effect on the demand for our products. The nature of our products makes them particularly vulnerable to undetected errors, or bugs, which could cause problems with how the products perform and which could in turn reduce demand for our products, reduce our revenue and lead to product liability claims against us Software products as complex as ours may contain errors and/or defects. Although we test our products extensively, we have in the past discovered software errors in our products after their introduction. Despite testing by us and by our current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after commercial shipments begin. This could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation or delays in market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also have to expend resources and capital to correct these defects. Our license agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability, warranty and other claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain domestic or international jurisdictions and we may be exposed to product liability, warranty and other claims. A successful product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited 24 protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, and the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. On October 2, 2001, we filed a lawsuit in the Virginia Circuit Court for Fairfax County against two field employees of Business Objects, S.A. This lawsuit alleged that these employees, who previously worked for us, breached their fiduciary and contractual obligations to us by, among other things, misappropriating our trade secrets and confidential information and soliciting our employees and customers. The complaint sought injunctive relief and monetary damages. On October 17, 2001, Business Objects filed suit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, claiming that our software infringes a patent issued to Business Objects relating to relational database access (the ‘403 patent). The suit sought injunctive relief and monetary damages. On August 29, 2003, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment and dismissed the lawsuit, ruling as a matter of law that our products do not infringe the ‘403 patent. Business Objects filed an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On January 6, 2005, the Federal Circuit ruled that the district court had correctly construed the patent, that we do not literally infringe any of the asserted patent claims, and that Business Objects is legally barred from claiming that our products infringe two of the three asserted claims under the doctrine of equivalents. As a result of the Federal Circuit’s ruling, the case was remanded to the district court for further proceedings limited solely to Business Objects’ one remaining patent claim, and limited solely to the doctrine of equivalents. The Federal Circuit also reinstated all of our non-infringement and invalidity counterclaims brought against Business Objects that the district court had not needed to address or decide. On July 26, 2005, the district court granted our motion for summary judgment of non-infringement and dismissed the lawsuit. On August 19, 2005, Business Objects filed an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. That appeal remains pending and is being briefed by the parties. On October 31, 2001, we filed suit against Business Objects, S.A. and its subsidiary, Business Objects Americas, Inc., in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, claiming that Business Objects’ software infringes two patents held by us relating to asynchronous control of report generation using a web browser (the ‘033 patent) and a system and method of adapting automatic output of OLAP reports to disparate user output devices (the ‘050 patent). The complaint sought monetary damages and injunctive relief. On March 13, 2002, we voluntarily dismissed without prejudice our lawsuit pending in the Virginia Circuit Court 25 for Fairfax County against the two field employees of Business Objects. The complaint against Business Objects was amended to add claims for violations of the federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, misappropriation of trade secrets, tortious interference with contractual relations and violations of the Virginia Conspiracy Act. As a result of pre-trial rulings, certain of these claims were dismissed. Our claims for tortious interference and misappropriation of trade secrets proceeded to trial on October 20, 2003. On October 28, 2003, the Court dismissed the tortious interference claim. In July 2003, the United States Patent & Trademark Office confirmed the validity of all the claims in the ‘033 and ‘050 patents and terminated reexamination proceedings that Business Objects had requested as to those patents. We agreed to dismissal of the ‘033 patent claims without prejudice. On August 6, 2004, the Court granted Business Objects’ motion for summary judgment on the ‘050 patent claims, ruling that Business Objects had not infringed our patent. The Court ruled in our favor on our claims of trade secret misappropriation, finding that Business Objects had misappropriated certain of our trade secrets. On September 7, 2004, we filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Business Objects did not file a cross appeal. On November 17, 2005, the Federal Circuit reversed the District Court on our tortious interference claim and remanded that claim for further proceedings. The Federal Circuit affirmed the District Court on all other issues. On December 1, 2005, we filed a Combined Petition for Panel Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc. The Federal Circuit denied the Combined Petition on January 25, 2006. On December 10, 2003, we filed a complaint for patent infringement against Crystal Decisions, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleged that Crystal Decisions willfully infringed three patents issued to us relating to: (i) asynchronous control of report generation using a web browser (the ‘033 patent); (ii) management of an automatic OLAP report broadcast system (the ‘796 patent); and (iii) providing business intelligence web content with reduced client-side processing (the ‘432 patent). We sought monetary damages and injunctive relief. Following the filing of the complaint, Crystal Decisions was acquired by Business Objects Americas, Inc. Business Objects Americas, Inc. answered the complaint, denying infringement and seeking a declaration that the patents in suit are invalid and not infringed by Business Objects Americas, Inc. We filed a motion for summary judgment of infringement of the ‘432, ‘796, and ‘033 patents on October 13, 2005. Business Objects filed motions for summary judgment of non-infringement and invalidity of the ‘432, ‘796, and ‘033 patents on October 13, 2005. On January 23, 2006, the Court denied our motion for summary judgment of infringement of the ‘432, ‘796, and ‘033 patents. The Court granted Business Objects’ motions for summary judgment of non-infringement of the ‘033 patent and of invalidity of the ‘432 and ‘796 patents. The Court denied Business Objects’ motion for summary judgment of invalidity of the ‘033 patent and denied as moot Business Objects’ motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the ‘432 and ‘796 patents. On February 7, 2006, the Court dismissed without prejudice Business Objects’ counterclaim for declaratory judgment of invalidity of the ‘033 patent. On February 23, 2006, the Court entered judgment in favor of Business Objects and against MicroStrategy. Any notice of appeal to be filed by MicroStrategy is due by March 27, 2006. The outcome of this litigation is not presently determinable. Because of the rights of our two classes of common stock, and because we are controlled by our existing holders of class B common stock, these stockholders could transfer control of MicroStrategy to a third party without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, prevent a third party from acquiring MicroStrategy, or limit your ability to influence corporate matters We have two classes of common stock: class A common stock and class B common stock. Holders of our class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of our class B common stock, except that holders of class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of class B common stock have ten votes per share. As of March 1, 2006, holders of our class B common stock owned 3,240,475 shares of class B common stock, or 76.4% of the total voting power. Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 235,800 shares of class A common stock and 2,789,430 shares of class B common stock, or 66.3% of the total voting power, as of March 1, 2006. Accordingly, Mr. Saylor is able to control MicroStrategy through his ability to determine the outcome of elections of our directors, amend our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and take other actions requiring the vote or consent of stockholders, including mergers, going-private transactions and other extraordinary transactions and their terms. 26 Our certificate of incorporation allows holders of class B common stock, almost all of whom are current employees or former employees of our company or related parties, to transfer shares of class B common stock, subject to the approval of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock could, without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, transfer voting control of MicroStrategy to a third party. Such a transfer of control could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock will also be able to prevent a change of control of MicroStrategy, regardless of whether holders of class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. In addition, this concentrated control limits your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our non-controlling stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 