Item 1A. Risk Factors Please consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are risks that we currently believe to be material, but they are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of the following risks could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. This report contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these statements. Factors that could contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Relating to Our Business ClearLab continues to incur substantial losses and requires ongoing cash investment from the U.S. Retail business. In 2002, we initiated a series of transactions in which we acquired the various entities and assets which now constitute ClearLab, our international contact lens development, manufacturing and distribution business. ClearLab incurred substantial operating losses in fiscal 2002, and has incurred substantial operating losses in each subsequent fiscal year Moreover, because of the ongoing ClearLab operating losses, we have been required to make substantial cash transfers from the U.S. Retail business to ClearLab. We have announced that we will close ClearLab’s United Kingdom manufacturing operations and consolidate ClearLab manufacturing operations in Singapore. We can provide no assurance that ClearLab will be able to operate profitably and that we will be able to reduce or eliminate ClearLab cash requirements. Our inability to reduce or eliminate our ongoing cash investment in ClearLab could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to separate ClearLab from the U.S. Retail business on favorable terms. On July 26, 2006, we announced that we had engaged an investment bank to assist in performing a strategic review of our ClearLab operations. The Based on this review, we are now committed to a separation of ClearLab from our U.S. Retail business and are currently assessing various strategic options. We can provide no assurance that the separation of ClearLab can be accomplished on favorable terms or that such separation will allow us to recover our cumulative investment in ClearLab. We may continue to incur significant additional expense to support ClearLab. Based on our strategic review of ClearLab, we are now committed to a separation of ClearLab from our U.S Retail business. However, we may be unable to effect a separation of ClearLab upon favorable 19 terms. Moreover, in order to fully commercialize ClearLab’s products, particularly the AquaSoft Singles product, we anticipate that ClearLab will require significant additional funding over the foreseeable future. We can provide no assurance that ClearLab will be able to operate profitably, that we will be able to reduce or eliminate ClearLab cash requirements, or that the separation of ClearLab from our U.S. retail business can be accomplished on favorable terms. Our business is dependent upon suppliers of contact lenses. We obtain the majority of our inventory from four contact lens manufacturers. At various times throughout our history, certain of these manufacturers have refused to sell lenses to us, and have sought to prohibit their distributors from doing so as well. Consequently, we have, at times, purchased significant portions of our inventory from unauthorized distributors. We recently entered into long-term supply agreements with three of the four manufacturers referenced above, and have historically been able to purchase products in adequate quantities from the fourth manufacturer. Consequently, we presently believe that our collective relationships with these four manufacturers are more favorable than they have been in recent years. Nevertheless, we remain dependent upon a limited number of suppliers for our products. Although we do not anticipate difficulty in obtaining adequate inventory at competitive prices, we can offer no assurance that such difficulties will not arise. For example, on January 31, 2007, we announced that the manufacturer of one of our top selling lenses, representing approximately 4% of our sales in the second half of fiscal 2006, was experiencing manufacturing difficulties, and anticipated significant supply constraints and backorders into the second quarter. The extent to which this particular supply disruption will affect us remains uncertain. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of contact lenses at competitive prices would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no control over the manufacturing and quality of the contact lenses we sell in the United States. We do not manufacture any of the lenses that we currently sell in the United States. Consequently, we have no control over manufacturing practices at the suppliers from whom we procure the products we sell. We put forth considerable efforts to ensure that the products we sell are safe and comply with all applicable regulations. In spite of these efforts, there is a risk that we could inadvertently resell contact lenses which fail to comply with applicable regulations or have other quality defects. If this were to occur, we could be forced to conduct a product recall, defend regulatory or civil claims, or take other actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We will continue to experience order cancellations due to the prescription verification requirements of the FCLCA. The FCLCA established a national uniform standard for both eye care practitioners and direct marketers with regard to releasing and verifying consumer contact lens prescriptions as well as other requirements relating to the sale of contact lenses. The FCLCA requires that contact lenses be sold only to consumers based on a valid prescription. Satisfying this prescription requirement obligates the seller either to obtain a copy of the prescription itself or to verify the prescription by direct communication with the customer’s prescriber. Although the FCLCA eliminated much of the previous legal risk and uncertainty associated with numerous differing and often ambiguous or archaic state laws and regulations that had previously governed the sale of contact lenses, our adherence to the FCLCA’s requirements nationwide results in us canceling a portion of our customers’ orders due to their prescriptions being expired or otherwise invalid. As a result of our prescription verification procedures, we have cancelled a significant number of orders in fiscal years 2004, 2005 and 2006. We expect to cancel additional orders in 2007 because of our prescription verification procedures. Such cancellations may negatively impact our operating results for fiscal year 2007. 20 We may continue to incur significant legal and professional fees. We spent $5.6 million, $4.7 million and $5.3 million on legal and professional fees in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. As a percentage of net sales, our legal and professional fees have decreased over the last few years, representing 2.6%, 2.0% and 2.1% of net sales in fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. During these years, we incurred significant legal and professional fees related to legal initiatives and increased efforts, including considerable lobbying activities, to overcome the anticompetitive barriers in the industry on our behalf and on behalf of consumers. We recently entered into several long-term supply agreements with contact lens manufacturers. Consequently, we believe that our ability to obtain adequate product supplies is somewhat more stable than in recent years and hope to decrease fiscal 2007 legal and professional fees from fiscal 2006 levels. Nevertheless, we compete in a competitive, highly regulated industry, and may be required to incur substantial legal and/or professional fees at any time. We are subject to numerous regulatory risks. Contact lenses are regulated as medical devices by the FDA. Under the FDC Act, medical devices must meet a number of regulatory requirements, including the requirement that they be cleared or approved by the FDA, be manufactured in accordance with good manufacturing practice regulations, be labeled in compliance with federal law, and be listed with the FDA. We attempt to ensure that the lenses we buy comply with federal laws. However, if we are not the manufacturer, we cannot ensure that the lenses we sell comply with the FDC Act. The distribution of medical devices that do not comply with the FDC Act is unlawful and subjects the distributor and the devices themselves to FDA regulatory action. The possible sanctions include warning letters from the FDA, injunction, civil penalties and criminal prosecution, as well as seizure and/or destruction of the contact lenses. It is possible that the FDA could consider certain of the contact lenses we sell to be misbranded or adulterated. Contact lenses are regulated by the FDA as “medical devices.” The FDA classifies medical devices as Class I, Class II or Class III and regulates them to varying degrees, with Class I medical devices subject to the least amount of regulation and Class III medical devices subject to the most stringent regulations. These regulations generally apply only to the manufacturing of contact lenses and, therefore, do not directly impact our direct marketing operations. Federal regulations also require the labels on “medical devices” to contain adequate instructions for their safe and proper use. However, there is an exemption from this requirement for medical devices the use of which is not safe except under the supervision of a practitioner licensed by law to direct the use of such device. Devices which fall within this exception must contain as part of their labeling the statement “Caution: Federal law restricts this device to sale by or on the order of (physician or other licensed practitioner),” the blank to be filled in with the word physician or other practitioner authorized by the law of the state in which the practitioner practices to use or order the use of the device. The FDA considers contact lenses to qualify for this labeling exemption; however, a device bearing this legend that is dispensed without a prescription may be considered misbranded by the FDA. Potential penalties for misbranding include warning letters from the FDA, seizure, injunction, civil penalties or prosecution. Such penalties, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. To date, the FDA has not taken any such action against us. A portion of our sales may be found to violate applicable state laws and regulations concerning the delivery and sale of contact lenses. Although the FCLCA overrides state laws or regulations that purport to impose stricter prescription verification procedures on direct marketers or that otherwise conflict with the general purposes and objectives of the FCLCA, the sale and delivery of contact lenses to consumers may also be subject to limited regulation by the state where the customer is located. For example, a substantial number of states 21 require that contact lenses be sold only by persons licensed or registered to do so under that state’s laws. Also, the FCLCA allows states to set the prescription length, provided that it is not less than one year. Such state laws or regulations may or may not run afoul of the FCLCA or other federal or constitutional requirements depending on their particular provisions. Neither our company nor any of our employees is a licensed eye care professional in many of the states in which we do business. Any action brought against us based on our failure to comply with applicable state laws and regulations could result in significant fines to us, our company being prohibited from making sales in a particular state or being required to comply with such laws, or could constitute a misdemeanor. Such required compliance could result in (i) increased costs to us, (ii) the inability to sell to customers at all in a particular state if we cannot comply with such state’s laws and (iii) misdemeanor penalties and civil fines. The occurrence of any of the above results could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell contact lenses and to continue to operate profitably. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to stringent regulation by various foreign jurisdictions in which our products are manufactured and/or sold. ClearLab’s products are subject to regulation in the countries in which its products are sold. The laws and regulations of such countries range from comprehensive medical device approval procedures comparable to those in the United States to simple requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these laws and regulations are increasing. In particular, medical devices in the European Union are subject to the Directive. Under the system established by the Directive, all medical devices other than active implants and in vitro diagnostic products currently must qualify for CE marking. Although member countries must accept for marketing medical devices bearing a CE marking without imposing further requirements related to product safety and performance, each country may require the use of its own language or labels and instructions for use. Member countries can impose additional requirements as long as they do not violate the Directive or constitute technical barriers to trade. Additional approvals from foreign regulatory authorities may be required for international sale of our products in non-European Union countries. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in the loss of previously received approvals and other sanctions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consumer acceptance of our manufactured products may not meet our expectations. ClearLab is our principal marketing organization for our wholesale manufacturing and distribution business, focusing on the marketing of its own contact lens products to major retailers and distributors outside the United States, as well as providing some contract manufacturing capacity for other contact lens manufacturers. We intend to continue to increase our product offerings to the international markets. However, consumer acceptance of our manufactured products may not meet our expectations, and we cannot assure that we will be able to increase our product offerings in the international markets. We may not be able to establish a sufficient network of eye care practitioners to provide contact lens eye exams to our customers who have expired contact lens prescriptions. We are continually taking steps to minimize canceled orders, including the continued development of a doctor referral network. We are currently expanding our national doctor referral network with select optical retail chains and independent practitioners and currently have nearly 1,000 locations. Under this referral program, when a current or potential customer needs a new contact lens prescription, we can facilitate the process of obtaining an eye examination through this network of providers. This process minimizes the interruptions in product consumption for the consumer and improves our ability to capture new customers and retain our current customers. If we are not successful in expanding our national doctor referral network, our financial results could be negatively impacted by our inability to recapture orders canceled due to expired contact lens prescriptions. 22 Our quarterly results are likely to vary based upon the level of sales and marketing activity in any particular quarter. We currently expense all advertising costs, including all direct-mail advertising costs, when the advertising first takes place. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons are affected by the timing of television, radio and Internet advertisements and by the mailing of our printed advertisements within and between quarters. The volume of mailings and other advertising may vary in different quarters and from year to year depending on our assessment of prevailing market opportunities. Our operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of future operating results. For example, we typically decrease advertising expenditures in the fourth quarter due to the increased cost to advertise during this period. As a result, we have, in the past, and in the future expect to, generate lower revenues in the fourth quarter than in the preceding third quarter. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. The retail sale of contact lenses is highly competitive and certain of our competitors are large, national optical chains that have greater resources than we do. The U.S. contact lens retail industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Traditionally, contact lenses were sold to customers almost exclusively by eye care practitioners in conjunction with eye examinations. Competition for patients and related contact lens sales significantly increased as optical chains and large discount retailers began providing optical services and has further intensified with the entry of direct marketers such as the Company. We believe that the eye care profession suffers from a surplus of eye care practitioners and that the resulting competitive pressure has been exacerbated by the increased prevalence of retail optical chains, mass merchandisers and direct marketers. Consequently, the competition among eye care practitioners to acquire customers and the competition to provide replacement lenses to such customers has intensified. To a lesser extent, we also compete with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other vision correction, including refractive surgical procedures. Our principal competitors include ophthalmologists and optometrists in private practice. We also compete with national optical chains, such as Pearle Vision, LensCrafters and National Vision Association, and mass merchandisers, such as Wal-Mart, Sam’s Club and Costco. In addition, we compete with other direct marketers of contact lenses, including on-line direct marketers. We may face increased competition in the future from new entrants in the direct marketing business, which may include national optical chains and mass merchandisers, some of which may have significantly greater resources than we do. In some cases, our competitors may have access to better pricing, cooperative marketing, or supply terms than we do. In addition, some of our competitors are significantly larger in overall revenues and have significantly greater resources than we do. Our inability to effectively compete within the industry would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for contact lenses could be substantially reduced if alternative technologies to permanently correct vision gain in popularity. We also encounter competition from alternative technologies, such as surgical refractive procedures, including new refractive laser procedures such as PRK (photo refractive keratectomy) and LASIK (laser in situ keratomileusis). If surgical refractive procedures become increasingly accepted as an effective and safe technique for permanent vision correction, they could substantially reduce the demand for contact lenses by enabling patients to avoid the ongoing cost and inconvenience of contact lenses. This, in turn, could cause a substantial decline in the number of contact lens wearers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Increases in the cost of shipping, postage or credit card processing could harm our business. We ship our products to customers by United States mail and other overnight delivery and surface services. We generally invoice the costs of delivery and parcel shipments directly to customers as separate shipping and handling charges. In addition, we use direct mailings to advertise our products and receive a majority of payments from customers using credit cards. Any increases in shipping, postal or credit card processing rates could harm our operating results as we may not be able to effectively pass such increases on to our customers. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by these shippers could limit our ability to market or deliver our products on a timely basis. Our business could be harmed if we are required to collect state sales tax on the sale of all products. At present, the only states in which we remit sales or other similar taxes in connection with the sale of our products to consumers are the states of Utah and Washington. From time to time, various other states have sought to impose state sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct marketing companies such like ours. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should have collected or should be collecting sales taxes on the sale of our products could result in additional costs and administrative expenses to us and corresponding price increases to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and operating results. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the products we manufacture or sell allegedly cause personal injury. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the products we manufacture and/or sell allegedly cause personal injury. Although we have not experienced any significant losses due to product liability claims, we may experience such losses in the future. We maintain insurance against product liability claims, but cannot be certain that such coverage will be adequate to cover any liabilities that we may incur, or that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity, could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We conduct our retail operations through a single distribution facility. Substantially all of our U.S. Retail inventory is stored and shipped from our distribution center in Salt Lake City, Utah. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. We may not be able to accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system. In addition, events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to labor disagreements, shipping problems, fires, or natural disasters, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and operations. We are subject to certain risks associated with our foreign operations that could harm our revenues and profitability. We have significant operations in Singapore and in the United Kingdom, although we are in the process of winding down the majority of our U.K. operations. The following risks, among others, are inherent in international operations, including the following: we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States, and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries; we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; we may find it difficult to interpret 24 foreign and domestic tax laws and anticipate foreign tax liabilities; and we may find it difficult to comply with other foreign laws and regulations. In addition, we face uncertainties as we wind down our U.K. operations, transfer assets to Singapore, reduce our U.K. workforce, and attempt to dispose of leases and surplus equipment. As we continue to operate our business globally, success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. Any of the foregoing risks could significantly impact our international operations and, as a result, our revenues and profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We face foreign currency risks primarily as a result of our acquired Singapore and United Kingdom operations and the intercompany balances between our U.S. and international operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Singapore dollar and the U.S. dollar and the British pound could lead to additional currency exchange losses or gains on the intercompany balances and transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. We have not entered into any foreign currency derivative financial instruments; however, we may choose to do so in the future in an effort to manage or hedge our foreign currency risk. Significant currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. We may be required to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill, long-lived and definite-lived assets if events and circumstances indicate the remaining balance of these assets may not be recoverable. We have a significant amount of goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment recorded on our balance sheet. SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” and SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” provide that goodwill and these long-lived and definite-lived assets be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair market value of the respective assets. If these estimates or their related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges for these assets. If required, these charges would be included in operating income. If we determine that significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to write off the impaired portion of these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results in the period in which the write-off occurs. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged, and we do not have any property rights in the 1-800 CONTACTS telephone number or the Internet addresses. We conduct our direct marketing business under various trade names and service marks, including “1-800 CONTACTS.” We have taken steps to register and protect these marks and believe that such marks have significant value and are an important factor in the marketing of our products. We have secured trademark registration for the “1-800 CONTACTS” name. We have obtained the rights to various telephone numbers, including but not limited to the 1-800 CONTACTS telephone number. However, under applicable FCC rules and regulations, we do not have and cannot acquire any property rights to the telephone numbers we use and cannot assure that we will have such rights indefinitely. The loss of the right to use the 1-800 CONTACTS number or other specific telephone numbers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we have obtained the rights to international equivalents for the 1-800 CONTACTS phone number; however, like the 1-800 CONTACTS number, we do not have and cannot acquire any property rights in these telephone numbers. We have also obtained the rights to various Internet addresses, including but not limited to www.1800contacts.com, www.contacts.com, www.contactlenses.com, www.evision.com and 25 www.1800eyedoctor.com. As with phone numbers, we do not have and cannot acquire any property rights in Internet addresses. We do not expect to lose the ability to use the Internet addresses; however, we can offer no assurance in this regard and such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. We may not be able to complete our milestones and obligations in a timely manner under our Japanese license agreement and may not receive the amount of license fees and royalties that we presently anticipate under that agreement. Under the terms of the license agreement with Menicon, we license different types of intellectual property to Menicon, including contact lens material, manufacturing technology and related knowledge. Under the terms of this agreement, Menicon is obligated to pay nonrefundable license fees of $18 million, of which $12 million has been paid to us, and $1 million is expected to be paid in December 2007. The remaining $5 million is subject to the completion of milestones under the agreement, including obligations on our part, milestones relating to Japanese regulatory approval and Menicon’s launch of the product in the Japanese market. In the event that we are not able to complete our milestones and obligations in a timely manner, or in the event Menicon is not able to achieve regulatory approval, we may not receive a portion of the amount of license fees and royalties that we presently anticipate under the agreement. If Menicon has not received regulatory approval on or before December 31, 2009, it may return all intellectual property covered by the agreement and in-process regulatory approvals to us, and we may terminate the exclusive agreement. Risks Relating to the Internet We are dependent on our telephone, Internet and management information systems for the sale and distribution of contact lenses. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to provide prompt, accurate and complete service to our customers on a competitive basis and our ability to purchase and promote products, manage inventory, ship products, manage sales and marketing activities and maintain efficient operations through our telephone and proprietary management information systems. We conduct all of our telephone and Internet operations from a single location. A significant disruption in its telephone, Internet or management information systems could harm our relations with our customers and the ability to manage our operations. From time to time, we have experienced temporary interruptions in our telephone service as a result of the technical problems experienced by our long-distance carrier. Similar interruptions may occur in the future and such interruptions may harm our business. Furthermore, extended or repeated reliance on our back-up computer systems may harm our business. We can offer no assurance that our back-up systems will be sufficient to prevent an interruption in our operations in the event of disruption in our management information systems, and an extended disruption in the management information systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent, in part, on continued use of the Internet. The Internet is rapidly evolving. A decrease in the growth of Internet usage would harm our business. The following factors, among others, may inhibit growth in Internet usage, limit visits to our Internet addresses or limit orders placed through our website: inadequate Internet infrastructure; security and privacy concerns; inconsistent quality of service; and unavailability of low cost, high speed service. Our success is dependent, in part, upon the ability of the Internet infrastructure to support increased use. The performance and reliability of the Internet may decline as the number of users increases or the bandwidth requirements of users increase. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages due to damage to portions of its infrastructure. If outages or delays occur frequently in the future, Internet usage, including usage of our website, could grow slowly or decline. 26 Online security breaches could harm our business. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain consumer confidence in our website. Substantial or ongoing security breaches of our system or other Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. Any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation of our users’ personal information could subject us to liability. We may be liable for claims based on unauthorized purchases with credit card information, fraud, or misuse of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation and financial liability. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. It is possible that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect customer transaction data. We may incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. A party that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Our insurance policies’ limits may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. Any breach resulting in misappropriation of confidential information would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation and legal uncertainties relating to the Internet and online commerce could negatively impact our business operations. Online commerce is new and rapidly changing, and federal and state regulation relating to the Internet and online commerce is evolving. Currently, there are few laws or regulations directly applicable to the Internet or online commerce on the Internet, and the laws governing the Internet that exist remain largely unsettled. Recently, the U.S. Congress enacted Internet laws regarding online children’s privacy, copyrights and taxation. Due to the increasing popularity of the Internet, it is possible that additional laws and regulations may be enacted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, taxation, content, copyrights, distribution, antitrust and quality of products and services. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations applicable to the Internet could harm our business operations. In addition, several telecommunications carriers have requested that the FCC regulate telecommunications over the Internet. Due to the increasing use of the Internet and the burden it has placed on the current telecommunications infrastructure, telephone carriers have requested the FCC to regulate Internet service providers and impose access fees on those providers. If the FCC imposes access fees, the costs of using the Internet could increase dramatically. This could result in the reduced use of the Internet as a medium for commerce, which could harm our business operations. Changing technology could adversely affect the operation of our website. The Internet, online commerce and online advertising markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer preferences. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and address its customers’ changing preferences. However, we may experience difficulties that delay or prevent us from being able to do so. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our Common Stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price for our Common Stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a number of factors, including quarter-to-quarter variations in our Company’s results of operations, news announcements, changes in general market conditions for contact lenses, regulatory actions, adverse 27 publicity regarding us or the industry in general, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and other factors. In addition, broad market fluctuations and general economic and political conditions may harm the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual performance. Investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. In the future, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts. In the past this has caused, and in the future could cause, the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. The trading activity in our common stock is relatively limited due to the limited size of our public float. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC under the symbol “CTAC.” The development and maintenance of an active public trading market depends, however, upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers, the presence of which is beyond our control or the control of any market maker. While we are a publicly traded company, the volume of trading activity in our stock is relatively limited due to the limited size of our public float. Even if a more active market for our Common Stock develops, there can be no assurance that such a market will continue. 