Risk Factors,” among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made herein and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such forward-looking statements represent management’s current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Investors are warned that actual results may differ from management’s expectations. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview MicroStrategy is a worldwide provider of business intelligence software that enables companies to report, analyze and monitor the data stored across their enterprise to reveal the trends and insights needed to make better business decisions. The MicroStrategy mission is to empower every business user to make more informed decisions by providing timely, relevant and accurate answers to their business questions. To achieve this mission, MicroStrategy’s single, integrated platform is designed to support various styles of business intelligence through an easy-to-use interface. MicroStrategy provides sophisticated analytical performance to business users in the format that suits them best, from high-level dashboards to custom reports and advanced analysis via e-mail, web, fax, wireless and voice communication channels. MicroStrategy engineers its software for reliability, scalability, security and ease of administration for organizations of all sizes. Leading companies and government organizations worldwide have chosen MicroStrategy as their enterprise business intelligence standard. Our software platform, MicroStrategy 8, enables users to query and analyze the most detailed, transaction-level databases, turning data into business intelligence and delivering boardroom quality reports and alerts about the users’ business processes. Our web-based architecture provides reporting, security, performance and standards that are critical for web deployment. Our products can be deployed on company intranets to provide employees with information to make better, more cost-effective business and management decisions. By integrating information from across the enterprise, solutions built on the MicroStrategy platform are designed to give analysts, managers and executives the critical insight they need to make better business and management decisions and to optimize their operations. With extranet deployments, enterprises can use MicroStrategy 8 to build stronger relationships by linking customers and suppliers via the Internet. MicroStrategy facilitates customer success with a comprehensive offering of consulting, education, technical support and technical advisory services for our customers and strategic partners. We were incorporated as a Delaware corporation on November 17, 1989. Industry Background Business intelligence software offers decision-makers the opportunity to ask and answer questions about data that has been captured but not yet fully exploited. Four key business needs have driven demand for business intelligence solutions: • Increase User Access and Scalability: In the past, dissemination of information has been limited to a few power users or analysts. Now a wide range of information customers — from customer service representatives to the CEO within a company and from customers to suppliers outside the organization — demand and can benefit from the insight that business intelligence can provide. The wide acceptance of the Internet as an information source also has fueled demand for enterprise data to be accessible over the web to tens of thousands of users across an enterprise. • Increase Data Scalability: Increasing information generation, and in particular, the ability to capture electronically and store every business transaction has made terabyte-size data warehouses commonplace. Terabyte-size data warehouses store one trillion bytes of data or more and are among the largest databases in the world. While transaction-level information is now routinely captured, organizations can struggle to make productive use of such massive data stores. Organizations need to view data within the operational context of the data — making even the most detailed information meaningful to business users. As a result, users want to be able to discover easily trends hidden in these very large databases, and verify these trends by reviewing the underlying transaction detail. 4 Table of Contents • Improve Supply Efficiency: Supplier transactions become more efficient with direct access to inventory and other related data. However, for true vendor-managed inventory and collaborative commerce systems, vendors also need to have access to key information about how their products are performing against business metrics. For example, vendors should be able to see how their products are selling in each geographic region so as not to over-ship products that are slow-moving or under-ship products that are selling quickly. By opening vendor performance information to the vendors themselves, buyers and sellers of goods and services become partners in the quest to optimize sales, margin and inventory. • Improve Distribution Efficiency: Business partners collaborate more effectively with access to shared data. By granting partners access to information such as the manufacturing pipeline and build schedule, partners can be more effective at satisfying demands of end customers and setting expectations. Furthermore, opening invoice and purchase order information to partners can enable them to reduce the overhead associated with channel management, resulting in cost savings and time efficiencies. For example, notifying channel sales partners of changes in the manufacturing schedule allows them to reset end customer expectations or to increase selling activity. The widespread acceptance of the Internet as a medium of communication and commerce has changed the way businesses interact with each other and their customers by allowing businesses to establish new revenue streams, create new distribution channels and reduce costs. Simultaneously, the amount of corporate information stored in databases continues to grow exponentially, and companies are giving an increasing number of employees, customers and suppliers access to their information. Business intelligence tools are one of the gateways to this information. For example, companies are using Internet-based systems to facilitate business operations, including sales automation, supply-chain management, marketing, customer service and human resource management. Consumers are also becoming increasingly sophisticated in their use of the Internet, relying on the Internet not only to make online purchases, but also to perform price comparisons, analyze recommendations from like-minded individuals, educate themselves about relevant products and offerings and enter into transactions that were once conducted face-to-face or via the telephone. The integration of the Internet into business processes and increased consumer sophistication create opportunities for companies to use business intelligence applications as part of a more dynamic business model. Factors driving demand for these applications include: Increased Electronic Capture of Transaction, Operational and Customer Information. The rapid growth in the electronic capture of business information and the increased availability of related profile data on the parties or products involved in each transaction are providing businesses with a rich data foundation for performing various analyses and making decisions. Powerful data analysis and mining tools are required to sift through massive amounts of data to uncover information regarding customer interactions, trends, patterns and exceptions, in turn enabling organizations to provide superior service and products to customers. Need to Create a Personalized, One-to-One Customer and/or Supplier Experience While Maintaining Privacy. Many companies have implemented strategies that establish personalized relationships with each customer and/or supplier based on individual needs and preferences, and earn their loyalty by providing superior service, security and convenience. In order to successfully acquire, retain and upgrade customers, organizations need to understand their customers’ profiles, transaction history, past responses to marketing campaigns, and interactions with customer service. Retrieving information from widely dispersed and complex data sources and providing a holistic view of the customer can be challenging. At the same time, while businesses have the opportunity to collect a variety of information that could improve targeting, customers are concerned about the potential for loss or abuse of their privacy. Need to Integrate Online and Traditional Operations. While there are substantial benefits to conducting business electronically, companies need to ensure that their online operations work in combination with their traditional operations. Companies are seeking to ensure that an order placed online can be reliably fulfilled 5 Table of Contents according to the expectations of the customer and to develop and maintain consistent interactions with customers across different channels. Maintaining the integrity of, and enhancing, the customer experience are crucial to fostering customer loyalty and supply chain relationships. Increased Openness of Business Intelligence Applications to Customers, Suppliers and Partners. Business intelligence systems are no longer confined to the organization. Today, companies are extending their business intelligence insight to suppliers, channel partners and customers via extranets. Business partners can have up-to-the-minute access to sales histories, inventory status and billing information through their web browsers. MicroStrategy Solution: Business Intelligence for the Whole Enterprise MicroStrategy currently offers MicroStrategy 8, an integrated, industrial-strength business intelligence platform designed to enable organizations to consolidate business intelligence applications onto a single platform for reporting, analysis and monitoring of real-time business information. The platform provides reliable and maintainable solutions with a low total cost of ownership and can be used in departmental, enterprise or extranet deployments. The MicroStrategy 8 business intelligence platform can be used to identify trends, improve operational efficiencies, reduce costs and increase profitability. Since businesses integrate information from across the enterprise, solutions built on the MicroStrategy 8 platform give analysts, managers and executives critical insight they need in optimizing their business operations. Integrated web-based reporting, report delivery and real-time alerting capabilities can enable the entire enterprise to work smarter, faster and better. MicroStrategy’s business intelligence platform provides the functionality users need to make better business and management decisions. The MicroStrategy 8 platform delivers a high-performance solution that meets users’ demands and is highly functional, simple to use, scalable and easy to administer. With one platform, users are able to report, analyze and monitor their business with all of the five most popular styles of business intelligence, which consist of: 1. Scorecards and Dashboards — Reports are formatted with broad visual appeal and can easily convey information “at-a-glance”. This style of business intelligence targets the business monitoring needs of managers and executives. 2. Reporting — Report formats can convey more detailed operational information than is conveyed on a scorecard or dashboard. These reports provide critical information to all personnel across the enterprise. 3. Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) Analysis — Slice-and-dice analysis with drilling, pivoting, page-by and sorting capabilities serves business users whose analytical needs exceed the content of operational reports and require a simple environment for basic exploration within a limited range of data. 4. Advanced and Predictive Analysis — Investigative queries that can analyze data in the database, down to the transaction level detail if necessary. This style provides extensive predictive and statistical treatment of the data for correlation analysis, trend analysis, financial analysis and projections. 5. Alerts and Proactive Reporting — Information that needs continuous monitoring requires alerts and proactive reporting to serve large populations on set schedules, business exceptions or on-demand. This style of business intelligence targets large user populations both internal and external to the enterprise. Specific benefits of the MicroStrategy 8 business intelligence platform include: Flexibility to Report, Analyze and Monitor. MicroStrategy 8 unifies reporting, analysis and real-time business monitoring into one experience for the business user, one efficient and scalable architecture for the IT professional, and one economical and extensible utility for the CIO. 6 Table of Contents Industrial-Strength Business Intelligence. The MicroStrategy platform enables industrial-strength business intelligence with enterprise-caliber IT, high user scalability and high database scalability. It enables centralized administration, operations and operations maintenance in a unified interface and unified backplane. This enterprise-caliber infrastructure allows for data scalability and user scalability with a zero footprint web product, where business intelligence can expand across and grow with the enterprise. Five Styles of Business Intelligence. Through MicroStrategy 8’s integration of the five styles of business intelligence, users are no longer bound to departmental reporting or solutions that offer only one style of business intelligence or combine individual styles of business intelligence. The need for multiple business intelligence or reporting tools is minimized when users have access to all five styles for their enterprise business intelligence needs. Easy-to-use Interface for Business Users. MicroStrategy 8 exposes all the sophisticated business intelligence applications to end users through easy to use intuitive what-you-see-is-what-you-get (WYSIWYG) web interfaces. This enables deployment to large user populations with minimal training required. The user interface includes an array of “one-click” actions embedded throughout the interface. It uses dialog boxes, mouse-over tool tips, and undo/redo buttons to make it easy for business people to explore the software without prior training. Interactive Reporting. MicroStrategy 8 has extended the MicroStrategy reporting capability by making all reports and scorecards fully interactive. Business users can rearrange the organization of any report with simple drag-n-drop actions or by clicking on the toolbar icons to get views of the data, all from the same report and without requiring assistance from IT. Integration of Analysis in Every Report or Scorecard. MicroStrategy 8 makes the same powerful analytic capability available directly from enterprise reports or scorecards automatically. MicroStrategy 8 delivers analytic integration to reporting users in two ways. The first is by providing OLAP capabilities directly to tables embedded within report documents, allowing business users to analyze the data within the table while staying within the bigger report document. The second way is by allowing users to “drill” from a report document to a dedicated analysis view that is optimized for conducting detailed analysis. In both cases, the integration of reporting with analysis is automatic. Direct Access to SAP BW, Microsoft Analysis Services and Hyperion Essbase. MicroStrategy 8 incorporates a dynamic data access engine designed to access multi-dimensional databases (MDDBs or OLAP Cube Databases), such as those from SAP Business Warehouse (BW), Microsoft Analysis Services and Hyperion Essbase. MicroStrategy 8’s Dynamic Multi-Dimensional Expressions (MDX) Engine generates MDX syntax that is fully certified with SAP BW using SAP’s high performance Business API interfaces. Because MicroStrategy’s MDX is dynamically generated using the multidimensional models implicit in SAP InfoCubes, QueryCubes and ODS databases, users can automatically and transparently drill back into SAP BW for more data, without any prior programming or prior design of drill paths. MicroStrategy 8 can also join data across SAP Infocubes and QueryCubes as well as access multiple instances of SAP BW and non-SAP sources at once. In addition, MicroStrategy 8’s Dynamic MDX Engine generates MDX syntax against Microsoft Analysis Services and Hyperion Essbase using the XMLA (XML for Analysis) standard for communication. XMLA is a standard for accessing multidimensional data jointly developed by members of the XMLA council. As with SAP BW, MicroStrategy’s MDX is dynamically generated using the multidimensional models implicit in Microsoft Analysis Services and Hyperion Essbase cubes. Because of this, users can automatically drill back to underlying source data without any additional programming or drill-path design. 7 Table of Contents Users of SAP BW, Microsoft Analysis Services and Hyperion Essbase databases each can access these reports through all of the MicroStrategy interfaces, MicroStrategy Web, Office, Narrowcast Server, and Desktop, just like any other MicroStrategy report. These reports offer standard OLAP functionality including graphing, subtotals, pivot, sort and page-by. Direct Access to Operational Data From Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) Systems. MicroStrategy 8 extends the MicroStrategy metadata architecture to include attributes and facts accessed directly from non-modeled databases instantly on a query-by-query basis. MicroStrategy 8’s Operational SQL Engine enables MicroStrategy reports to include data from any operational system using either completely free-form structured query language (SQL) or a graphical query builder interface, including stored procedures and views. Since the attributes and facts from operational database sources are managed by the MicroStrategy metadata architecture, MicroStrategy’s security architecture and other reusable objects such as prompts can be applied automatically. Heterogeneous Joining of Data From Across the Enterprise. MicroStrategy 8 extends the MicroStrategy data modeling flexibility to include integrated views of data across heterogeneous data stores. By mapping conforming dimensions from different sources within the MicroStrategy object model, MicroStrategy 8 can automatically join data from multiple different sources in the same report document. Data can come from any source accessible by MicroStrategy 8, including the data warehouse, data marts, SAP BW, Microsoft Analysis Services, Hyperion Essbase and other operational system databases. Integrating Data Mining into Mainstream Reports & Analyses. MicroStrategy 8’s analytic engine includes predictive capabilities in every MicroStrategy report or analysis. The analytic engine can calculate four of the primary data mining functions, including neural network algorithms, clustering algorithms, regression algorithms, and tree algorithms. Hand-in-hand with this calculation capability, MicroStrategy 8 also includes the ability to import data mining models directly from data mining products from vendors like IBM, Teradata, SAS, and SPSS using the predictive modeling mark-up language standard. With this capability, data mining models can be imported through a single click and automatically converted into a standard MicroStrategy metric. After that, MicroStrategy’s Data Mining Service extension enables these metrics to be used freely and calculated quickly in reports, analyses and alerts. Support for Large Data Volumes and All Major Relational Database/Hardware Combinations. The MicroStrategy platform supports systems with very large data volumes and is specifically optimized to support all major relational database platforms commonly used for business intelligence systems as well as multi-dimensional databases like SAP BW. Important features of our solution in this area include: • SQL optimization drivers that improve performance of each major database; • The ability to support very large user populations; • Highly reliable up-time, even in high volume applications; and • The ability to work with and support nine languages for international applications. Powerful Analytics to Customer- and Transaction-Levels of Detail. We believe that the MicroStrategy 8 platform incorporates one of the most sophisticated analysis engines available today, capable of answering highly detailed business questions. It offers support for information beyond the summary level to include information at the customer- and transaction- levels. This capability is critical to a wide range of applications, including highly targeted direct marketing, e-commerce site personalization, customer and product affinity analysis, call detail analysis, fraud detection, credit analysis forecasting, trend metrics and campaign management. The MicroStrategy 8 platform allows the creation of highly sophisticated systems that take maximum advantage of the detail available in a company’s databases. Powerful Personalization Engine. The MicroStrategy 8 platform includes a customer- and transaction-level personalization engine. The underlying architecture is designed to generate personalization parameters based on 8 Table of Contents data gathered by an organization from a variety of sources, including past customers’ transactions, customer clickstream information, stated user preferences and demographic information. In addition, the MicroStrategy personalization engine is able to determine when and under what circumstances a person is automatically provided with a set of information that proves useful in fraud detection and homeland security applications. Powerful Narrowcast Server Distribution Engine for Information Delivery. Our technology offers a high performance personalized narrowcast engine for delivering periodic and alert-based information to users via Internet, e-mail, wireless devices, printer and fax. The narrowcast engine includes drivers for all major device types used in both domestic and international markets, enabling the delivery of information to users when and where it is needed. Highly Stylized and Consolidated Reporting and Formatting Capabilities. MicroStrategy Report Services technology delivers a wide range of enterprise reports via the web, including production and operational reports, managed metrics reports and scorecards. The design capabilities provide the precision necessary to deliver reports with boardroom presentation quality, without any programming. By dragging and dropping report components, users can create high quality reports with complete formatting flexibility. Unlike other conventional reporting products, the modern architecture delivers both traditional hierarchical banded reports and newer, web-oriented zone-based reports. MicroStrategy 9. On January 14, 2009, we introduced our upcoming software release, the MicroStrategy 9 business intelligence platform, at our annual user conference. MicroStrategy 9 includes significant new products and enhancements to the MicroStrategy 8 business intelligence software platform, such as increased scalability, performance and efficiency and a new architecture that enables the rapid deployment of departmental BI applications and consolidation of departmental and enterprise BI applications. We expect to make MicroStrategy 9 generally available in the first quarter of 2009. Strategy Our business objective is to become the leading provider of business intelligence software and related services to the largest enterprises, governments and the largest databases and data providers in the world. The key elements of our strategy to achieve this objective are as follows: Marketing Strategy. Our business intelligence platform marketing strategy is designed to increase our footprint in the business intelligence market by increasing awareness of the MicroStrategy platform. Our marketing programs target five principal constituencies: • Our historical base of corporate technology buyers and departmental technology buyers in Fortune Global 2000 enterprises; • Corporate and departmental technology buyers in mid-sized enterprises, with annual revenues between $250 million and $1 billion; • Government technology buyers and the vendors to the government community; • Independent software vendors that want to embed analytical tools in their solutions; and • System integrators that have technology relationships with the largest 2,500 enterprises, governments and information intensive businesses. We continually seek to increase our brand awareness by focusing our messaging on the possibilities for value creation with our business intelligence platform, the benefits of using our platform and competitive differentiators. The channels we use to communicate with these constituencies include: • Print ads; • Online ads; • Direct e-mail; 9 Table of Contents • Industry events; • User conferences; • Strategic partners; • Word of mouth and peer references; • Industry awards; • Our website; and • Coverage in print and broadcast media. Technology Strategy. Our technology strategy is focused on expanding our support for large information stores, enhancing our analysis and segmentation capabilities, strengthening our personalization technology and enhancing our report delivery and alerting functionality to all commonly used devices. We continue to enhance our technology for use with a broad range of operating systems and databases to enable our customers to leverage their existing technology investments to achieve faster query times with fewer required resources. In addition, we continue to develop our platform for easy integration with a wide spectrum of ERP systems. As part of this strategy, we are developing technology that further differentiates our product offerings by increasing functionality along the following key dimensions: • Capacity — the volume of information that can be efficiently analyzed and utilized; • Concurrency — the number of users that can be supported simultaneously; • Sophistication — the range of analytical methods available to the application designer; • Performance — the response time of the system; • Database Flexibility — the range of data sources, data warehouses and online transaction processing databases which the software is capable of efficiently querying without modification; • Robustness — the reliability and availability of the software in mission critical environments; • Deployability — the ease with which applications can be deployed, modified, upgraded and tuned; • Personalization — the quality and sophistication of a one-to-one user experience; • Content Flexibility — the range of content, both structured and unstructured, that can be efficiently utilized; and • Media Channel and Interface Flexibility — the range of media channels, interface options and display features supported. Sales Strategy. Our sales strategy focuses on direct sales through our dedicated sales force and relationships with indirect channel partners in order to increase market share in both domestic and international markets. We recently launched an initiative to provide enhanced incentives for our indirect channel partners to market and distribute our products and services to end user customers. We also seek to increase sales to our existing base of customers by offering a range of software and services. Furthermore, we offer a comprehensive set of educational programs that enhance our potential customers’ and channel partners’ understanding of our software. Products We currently offer an integrated business intelligence platform, known as MicroStrategy 8, which is designed to enable businesses to turn information into strategic insight and make more effective business decisions. MicroStrategy 8. MicroStrategy 8 includes a number of major enhancements from its predecessor, MicroStrategy 7i, including a redesigned web interface, interactive reporting in Report Services, improved 10 Table of Contents integrated analysis to facilitate drilling into more-detailed analysis, WYSIWYG report design over the web, direct access to SAP BW metadata, direct access to operational data, improved reporting by joining heterogeneous databases, and improved predictive reporting and analysis including enhanced integration with third party data mining products. MicroStrategy 8 is designed for business executives, report consumers and business managers, as well as power users and analysts with simplicity and high productivity in mind. MicroStrategy 8 integrates a full range of reporting, analysis and monitoring capabilities into a single platform — providing central management of security, administration, development and deployment. MicroStrategy 8 is designed to integrate the two leading business intelligence approaches, ad hoc query and reporting (ROLAP) and cube analysis (MOLAP), delivering quick response time against almost any size data set, full access to transaction-level data and a myriad of options for complex analysis. MicroStrategy 8 enables organizations to consolidate business intelligence applications onto a single platform, resulting in reliable and maintainable solutions with a low total cost of ownership. The MicroStrategy 8 platform consists of the following product components: MicroStrategy Intelligence Server. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server is the foundation for our business intelligence platform. We believe that MicroStrategy Intelligence Server is the most advanced business intelligence server available in the market, capable of answering highly sophisticated business questions. Its robust ROLAP technology enables organizations to conduct large-scale product affinity and product profitability analyses, research customer preferences through sales, contribution and pricing analysis, and compare present and historical customer retention data with forecasting and trend metrics. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server generates highly optimized queries through its very large database drivers, enabling high throughput and fast response times. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server has been built with the scalability and fault tolerance required for sophisticated analysis of multi-terabyte databases and can be deployed to thousands of users through complete user, object and data security and management. It contains thousands of specific optimizations for all major relational databases and multi-dimensional databases like SAP BW and includes the load distribution, prioritization and system tuning capabilities demanded by large-scale implementations. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server contains an analytical engine with over 240 different sophisticated mathematical, financial and statistical data mining functions with the flexibility for further function extensions. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server combines the power of its analytical engine with the scalability of a relational database to perform complex data analysis with maximum efficiency. All of the other products in the MicroStrategy 8 platform integrate with the MicroStrategy Intelligence Server and benefit from its broad functionality. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server is designed to be fault-tolerant to help ensure system availability and high performance. Through an enterprise management console, MicroStrategy Intelligence Server provides a sophisticated array of enterprise management tools, such as caching and query prioritization to streamline performance and batch job scheduling, which helps to maintain disparate and diverse user communities. Administrators can automate the dynamic adjustments of system and user governing settings, such as user thresholds and database thread priorities, in order to smooth the database workload and ensure the high performance that large user communities require. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server is designed as a services oriented architecture to easily augment functionality and capabilities throughout the platform. MicroStrategy Intelligence Server Universal Edition uses an optimized 64-bit architecture and runs on a 64-bit Unix platform for even greater performance. MicroStrategy OLAP Services and Report Services employ this services-oriented architecture design. 11 Table of Contents MicroStrategy Report Services. MicroStrategy Report Services is the enterprise reporting engine of the MicroStrategy business intelligence platform that delivers an entire range of enterprise reports, including production and operational reports, managed metrics reports and scorecards. The WYSIWYG design capabilities on the web provide the precision necessary to deliver these reports with desktop publishing quality and drag-and-drop simplicity. Users can create reports using intuitive design features without programming or outside help. MicroStrategy’s Dynamic Enterprise Dashboards combine advanced data visualization and animation with MicroStrategy’s industrial-strength business intelligence platform to deliver highly intuitive information dashboards that yield greater business insight than traditional graphs and grids. Business users can intuitively flip through many different perspectives of corporate performance without ever leaving the dashboard, allowing them to quickly and easily identify problems and diagnose root causes. MicroStrategy 8 OLAP Services. MicroStrategy 8 combines the speed and interactivity of multi-dimensional OLAP analysis with the analytical power and depth of relational OLAP. MicroStrategy 8 OLAP Services is an extension of MicroStrategy Intelligence Server that allows MicroStrategy Web and Desktop users to manipulate Intelligent Cubes databases. End users can add or remove report objects, add derived metrics and modify the filter, all with “speed-of-thought” response time against Intelligent Cubes. MicroStrategy 8 OLAP Services enables full multi-dimensional OLAP analysis within Intelligent Cubes, while retaining the ability of users to seamlessly drill through to the full breadth and depth of the data warehouse. MicroStrategy Web and MicroStrategy Web Universal. MicroStrategy Web is a proprietary zero-footprint, browser independent web interface providing query, reporting and analysis through a platform independent architecture. MicroStrategy Web’s interface provides a familiar look and features drag-and-drop report creation, one-click tool bars, dialogue boxes, spreadsheet formatting, advanced printing and exporting, and right-click menus for drilling, pivoting and sorting. All of this is accomplished without ActiveX, Java Applets or client side installations or downloads, helping to ensure the highest levels of security. MicroStrategy Web provides users with a highly interactive environment and low maintenance interface for reporting and analysis. Using this intuitive HTML-only web solution, users access, analyze and share corporate data. MicroStrategy Web provides ad hoc querying, analysis, quick deployment and rapid customizability, making it even easier for users to make informed business and management decisions on virtually any web browser. MicroStrategy Web Universal features the same powerful functionality that users are familiar with in MicroStrategy Web with the added benefit of working with all major operating systems, application servers and web servers. MicroStrategy Narrowcast Server. MicroStrategy Narrowcast Server is a proactive report delivery and alerting server that distributes personalized business information to recipients via e-mail, printers, file servers, portals, wireless devices, fax and phone. MicroStrategy Narrowcast Server delivers targeted information to individuals on an event-triggered or scheduled basis through the communication device that is most convenient. It provides an engine for implementing targeted messaging to acquire and retain customers and a platform for distributing information to corporate departments, the entire enterprise and other stakeholders including customers and suppliers. MicroStrategy Narrowcast Server has a web-based interface that can be used with existing web applications. Users can subscribe to information services by providing personal information and preferences, enabling them to receive personalized information relevant to them. In addition to proactively delivering reports from the MicroStrategy 8 platform, MicroStrategy Narrowcast Server’s open information source modules enable it to deliver information from a multitude of information 12 Table of Contents sources to the business user. The multiple information sources can be combined to provide users with requested information in one personalized e-mail, message or document. MicroStrategy Office. MicroStrategy Office lets every Microsoft Office user run, edit and format any MicroStrategy report directly from within Microsoft applications such as Excel, PowerPoint and Word. MicroStrategy Office is designed using Microsoft .NET technology and accesses the MicroStrategy business intelligence platform using XML and web services. MicroStrategy Office gives business users open and straightforward access to the full functionality of the MicroStrategy platform — all from familiar Microsoft Office applications. MicroStrategy Office serves as a Microsoft add-in, with MicroStrategy functionality expressed as a single tool bar in Microsoft. MicroStrategy Desktop. MicroStrategy Desktop is a business intelligence software component that provides integrated query and reporting, powerful analytics and decision support workflow on the personal computing desktop. MicroStrategy Desktop provides a rich set of features for online analysis of corporate data. Even complex reports are easy to create and can be viewed in various presentation formats, polished into production reports, distributed to other users and extended through a host of ad hoc features including drilling, pivoting and data slicing. The interface itself can be customized to different users’ skill levels and security profiles. MicroStrategy Desktop comes in two versions: • Desktop Analyst. A simplified version that provides interactive slice and dice required by managers; and • Desktop Designer. A full-featured version that lets users design complex and sophisticated reports. Applications developed within MicroStrategy Desktop can be easily deployed throughout the MicroStrategy architecture bringing integrated query and reporting capabilities, powerful analytics and decision support workflow to analysts, quantitative users and end users throughout the enterprise and beyond. MicroStrategy Architect. MicroStrategy Architect is the MicroStrategy 8 product in which applications are modeled through an intuitive graphical user interface. MicroStrategy Architect provides a unified environment for creating and maintaining business modules and their relations to underlying data for business intelligence applications. MicroStrategy Architect is highly automated and is based on an open, flexible architecture, which can greatly reduce the cost and time required to implement and maintain systems. MicroStrategy Administrator. MicroStrategy Administrator enables administrators to efficiently develop, deploy, monitor and maintain small and medium systems as well as enterprise-scale systems supporting thousands of users. Project migration utilities help administrators develop, test and deploy systems. Performance analysis enables administrators to monitor and tune systems for maximum performance and availability. MicroStrategy Administrator has been designed to help ensure easy management of application objects and users across multiple development, testing and production environments. MicroStrategy Administrator eases the burden of maintaining users and security by using textual commands that can be saved as scripts. These commands and scripts can be executed from either a graphical interface or from the command line giving system administrators the flexibility and ease-of-use necessary for efficient systems management. MicroStrategy Administrator tools consist of Object Manager, Enterprise Manager and Command Manager. MicroStrategy SDK. MicroStrategy SDK is a comprehensive development environment that enables integration of MicroStrategy 8 features and functionality into any application on multiple platforms, including UNIX-based systems using a Java-based web API. Through sample code, documentation and reference guides, the MicroStrategy SDK enables an application developer to quickly learn to use the APIs to implement easy-to-use web reporting and powerful business intelligence applications. All API interfaces within the MicroStrategy SDK reflect XML architecture. MicroStrategy SDK's Portal Integration Kit includes pre-built samples for embedding MicroStrategy 8 analysis into a corporate portal. The 13 Table of Contents Web Services Development Kit provides sample code that enables MicroStrategy 8 functionality to be accessed via standard web services. MicroStrategy BI Developer Kit. MicroStrategy BI Developer Kit is a package of products that includes MicroStrategy Desktop Designer, MicroStrategy Architect and modular analytic applications. The analytic modules are starter kits designed to streamline business processes through the use of business intelligence. Each of the modules ships with a sample data-model and numerous reports and key performance indicators. The analytic modules are designed to enable portability and the ability to work against existing data warehouses without the need for additional data extraction and loading concerns. The modules are easy to extend and modify and reflect a decade of business intelligence implementation experience and best practices of the most common business analysis applications. MicroStrategy Mobile. MicroStrategy Mobile provides mobile workers with access to BI reports on their BlackBerry smartphones. With MicroStrategy Mobile, business users will receive the same reports on their BlackBerry smartphone as they receive on their desktop, without the need for reformatting or retrofitting existing reports. The report manipulation features available in MicroStrategy Mobile allow users to view large reports within the compact screen size of the BlackBerry smartphone. MicroStrategy Integrity Manager. MicroStrategy Integrity Manager automatically compares and verifies the consistency of reports as changes are made to the BI ecosystem, and then highlights issues and discrepancies to monitor the overall reliability of the BI content used by business decision makers. MicroStrategy Integrity Manager reduces the need for resource-intensive manual testing by comparing versions of reports after data updates and throughout the BI development cycle, thereby automating report regression testing. Data inconsistencies can be captured much sooner in the development cycle, saving time in report testing, end user support, and issue resolution. MicroStrategy 9. On January 14, 2009, we introduced our upcoming software release, MicroStrategy 9, at our annual user conference. MicroStrategy 9 includes significant new products and enhancements to the MicroStrategy 8 business intelligence software platform, and we expect to make MicroStrategy 9 generally available in the first quarter of 2009. MicroStrategy 9 will deliver new technology and features designed to: • Extend enterprise BI with enhancements for greater scalability, performance and efficiency; • Enable rapid development and deployment of departmental BI applications; and • Provide a seamless consolidation path from departmental BI to enterprise BI. Extending Enterprise BI As BI systems grow to thousands of users and hundreds of terabytes of data, maintaining fast query performance can be a tremendous challenge. MicroStrategy 9 includes new adaptive caching technology called In-memory ROLAP, which takes advantage of the large addressable memory now available on 64-bit Unix, Linux and Windows computer servers, and provides a performance-optimized middle-tier database that can respond directly to data requests from reports, dashboards and OLAP analyses. MicroStrategy 9 also introduces new SQL generation optimizations that can greatly improve performance for sophisticated queries involving complex metrics. As companies merge and expand, there is an increased urgency for business intelligence to span all operations, across business units, across departments and across the globe. This expansion requires BI systems to support global deployments. MicroStrategy 9 offers the ability to present reports, dashboards or OLAP analyses in the local language of business users viewing the information. In addition, MicroStrategy 9 offers numerous capabilities to streamline coordination between development teams working around the globe on the same BI applications. 14 Table of Contents Enabling Rapid Development and Deployment of Departmental BI MicroStrategy 9 includes significant new architectural components and features designed to support the needs of smaller-scale BI systems for departments and workgroups. MicroStrategy 9 enables departmental BI applications to be set up quickly, providing end users with the ability to create reports and dashboards and distribute information among themselves with little or no IT support. MicroStrategy’s new multi-source ROLAP, In-memory ROLAP and rapid metadata creation enable business departments to quickly set up small BI environments, accessing multiple databases without the time-consuming and technically-intensive work of first creating a data mart or data warehouse. MicroStrategy 9 has numerous new features that make assembling reports simpler and faster. Business users can quickly create their own dashboards using new features in MicroStrategy 9, including out-of-the-box dashboard templates, support for custom-designed templates and new design assistants that aid novice users in creating their own dashboards. Because of its ROLAP architecture, the MicroStrategy business intelligence platform has allowed business users to freely investigate the data or “surf” through the data warehouse without having to design a new report for each new combination of data they want to see. MicroStrategy 9 will extend this ability by allowing users to perform these same OLAP manipulations such as pivoting and drilling directly on graphs. MicroStrategy 9 will provide users greater control of report and dashboard distribution with its Distribution Services product. Users will be able to set up report distributions for themselves or for other users, sending reports via e-mail, networked printers, or directly to recipients’ computers or servers. Business users will be empowered to create and manage their own information subscriptions without the intervention of a centralized IT administrator. Providing Seamless Consolidation from Departmental BI to Enterprise BI MicroStrategy 9 is designed to enable the easy merger of independent workgroup and departmental BI implementations into a larger, more expansive enterprise BI system. Using the new multi-source ROLAP capability, metadata and reports from departmental BI islands can be gradually merged into larger enterprise BI metadata, without having to move any of the original data into data warehouses or data marts. MicroStrategy 9 is also designed to allow companies to gradually move their data from disparate databases into the data warehouse simply by “re-pointing” the metadata to access the same data, but at its new location, with no disruption to reports or redesign required. Product Support and Other Services MicroStrategy Technical Support. MicroStrategy Technical Support provides a diverse set of support options to meet the needs of customers and projects and offers product upgrades when available. Product experts help support MicroStrategy implementation across the development, test and production environments. Support offerings include access to our highly skilled support team during standard business hours, around the clock access to our online support site, and options to secure dedicated technical support at any time of the day. Technical support services are provided to customers for a maintenance fee, which is charged in addition to the initial product license fee. MicroStrategy Consulting. MicroStrategy Consulting offers customers a broad range of business intelligence and data warehousing expertise gathered from helping thousands of customers across diverse industries implement departmental, enterprise and extranet applications across various types of databases. MicroStrategy consultants identify the optimal design and implementation strategy that includes detailed business requirements, user interface requirements and performance tuning. By leveraging our best practices, 15 Table of Contents strategic visioning, project planning and platform expertise, we assist customers’ technical staff in completing projects and developing solutions that business users will most easily adopt. MicroStrategy Education. MicroStrategy Education offers goal-oriented, comprehensive education solutions for customers and partners. Through the use of self-tutorials, custom course development, joint training with customers’ internal staff or standard course offerings, MicroStrategy’s Education consultants develop an ongoing education program that meets our customers’ specific education needs. Education consultants deliver quality, cost-effective instruction and skill development for administrators, developers and analysts. MicroStrategy offers the Perennial Education Pass Program which allows customers to train named individuals through an unlimited number of public MicroStrategy instructor-led courses and online courses under this annual program. Angel.com and Alarm.com. We also have a non-core business, Angel.com, which is a provider of interactive voice response telephony systems. Prior to February 13, 2009, we also operated Alarm.com, a provider of web-enabled residential and commercial security and activity monitoring technology. In March 2008, in connection with our consideration of strategic alternatives relating to our non-core Angel.com and Alarm.com businesses, we committed to a plan to sell these businesses. We made the decision to sell these businesses in order to focus our resources on our core competency of business intelligence software and services. The financial results for Angel.com and Alarm.com initially were reclassified as discontinued operations in the quarter ended March 31, 2008. Although we continued to explore strategic alternatives for the Angel.com business, based on changes in market conditions that occurred in the quarter ended June 30, 2008, we determined that Angel.com no longer met the criteria to permit discontinued operations treatment and held-for-sale classification. Accordingly, amounts related to Angel.com were reclassified to continuing operations in the second quarter of 2008 and since then have been reflected in continuing operations for all periods presented. On February 13, 2009, we completed the sale of our equity interest in Alarm.com to Alarm.com Holdings, Inc. As a result of the transaction, we received aggregate consideration of approximately $27.7 million in cash, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments, if any, which will be determined based on Alarm.com’s working capital on the closing date. The sale of our ownership interest in Alarm.com is expected to result in us recognizing an after-tax gain in the range of approximately $14 million to $17 million in the first quarter of 2009, which includes the cost of terminating all outstanding Alarm.com employee stock options prior to the closing of the transaction and other costs associated with the sale. Customers MicroStrategy customers include many of the leading companies from a diverse group of industries, including retail, telecommunications, financial services, insurance, pharmaceutical and healthcare, manufacturing, technology and Internet, and government and public services. Below is a representative list of companies and organizations that use the MicroStrategy business intelligence platform: • Retail: Ahold, Burlington Coat Factory, Cabela’s, The Container Store, Corporate Express, Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc., Hard Rock Café, Limited Brands, Lowe’s Companies, Ross Stores, Inc., and Starbucks Corporation • Telecommunications: AT&T, Bell Canada, CNN, Comcast Corporation, Telefónica, and Verizon Services Corp • Financial Services: Austria Bank, Bank of the West, Fieldstone Mortgage, First American Financial Corp., H&R Block Financial Advisors, Republic Bank Limited, and Wells Fargo Bank • Insurance: 21st Century Insurance, GEICO, Grange Insurance, Guy Carpenter & Company, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, and Pacific Life Insurance • Pharmaceutical and Healthcare: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Lloydspharmacy, Premier, Sanofi Pasteur, Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, and Upsher-Smith Laboratories 16 Table of Contents • Manufacturing: HD Supply, Oakwood Homes, Porsche Cars North America, Rite-Hite Corporation, Sanmina SCI Corporation, and Wilton Industries, Inc. • Technology/Internet: Classmates Online, eBay, Netflix, Priceline, and Yahoo! • Government/Public Services: Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Housing and Urban Development, National Institutes of Health, Ohio Department of Education, State of Tennessee, Texas Department of Agriculture, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army, U.S. Census Bureau, and U.S. Postal Service Customer Case Studies Burlington Coat Factory Burlington Coat Factory, a nationally recognized retailer of high-quality, branded apparel at everyday low prices, selected MicroStrategy for merchandising reporting and analytics. Burlington Coat Factory uses MicroStrategy for reporting and analysis on key merchandising metrics. MicroStrategy converts the detailed transactional data into personalized reports through dashboards and exception reporting for Burlington Coat Factory executives and merchants. MicroStrategy teamed with QuantiSense to provide Burlington Coat Factory with an end-to-end solution for its retail business intelligence requirements. Katz Group Katz Group is one of North America’s leading drug store operators and Canada’s largest integrated retail pharmacy network with more than 1,800 drug stores in Canada and the United States. Katz is expanding its use of MicroStrategy in its user community to enable management in the retail organization to report on and analyze sales and store information. With daily reporting and report distribution, Katz provides its management team with retail store information to help drive key decisions. Katz selected the MicroStrategy Business Intelligence Platform for its ease-of-use and scalability. David’s Bridal With more than 50 years of bridal experience, David’s Bridal is the largest bridal retailer in the country with more than 280 locations nationwide. David’s Bridal uses the MicroStrategy BI Platform to support key reporting and analysis needs for the entire organization, from store managers all the way up to the CEO. Family Dollar Store Family Dollar Store is one of the fastest growing discount store chains in the United States with stores in 44 states. Family Dollar has expanded its use of MicroStrategy to generate sales and inventory reports for greater insight into which products are selling at its 6,500 stores. Family Dollar selected MicroStrategy based on its intuitive user interface and proven scalability in large data warehousing environments. 24 Hour Fitness 24 Hour Fitness, the largest fitness club chain in the U.S., selected MicroStrategy to support its enterprise business intelligence applications. 24 Hour Fitness plans to use the MicroStrategy Business Intelligence Platform for reporting on and analyzing a wide range of key performance indicators for its 425 clubs. Club managers, field management, and corporate management will use MicroStrategy to gain greater insights into club traffic, member preferences, and sales and financial data to help them make more informed decisions. MicroStrategy was selected for its data and user scalability, broad range of reporting features and functionality, and excellent query performance. 17 Table of Contents Cabela’s Incorporated Cabela’s Incorporated, a leading specialty retailer of hunting, fishing, and outdoor gear, chose MicroStrategy as its enterprise reporting standard. MicroStrategy will be used across the organization for enhanced insights into key business areas, including inventory planning, customer service, sales administration, forecast analysis, and category management. In addition, MicroStrategy will be used to help Cabela’s improve its online business by enabling Cabela’s employees to review every item purchased online and better understand the items that customers typically purchase together. NTT America, Inc. NTT America, Inc., a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of NTT Communications Corporation, selected MicroStrategy to analyze and monitor key customer service performance metrics. NTT America chose MicroStrategy’s Dynamic Enterprise Dashboard to monitor customer service data, including response times to trouble tickets. NTT America executives and managers will use the MicroStrategy information dashboards for at-a-glance insights into customer service performance to help them make data-driven decisions. With MicroStrategy, NTT America expects to be able to improve its service response times, allocate resources more efficiently, and address other critical service areas to improve customer satisfaction and retention. Sales and Marketing Direct Sales Organization. We market our software and services primarily through our direct sales force. We have sales offices in locations throughout the world. We are represented by distributors in several countries where we do not have sales offices. Indirect Sales Channels. We have entered into formal and informal relationships with reseller, value-added reseller, system integration, original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) and technology partners who utilize the MicroStrategy platform for a variety of commercial purposes. Agreements with these partners generally provide non-exclusive rights to market our products and services and allow access to our marketing materials, product training and direct sales force for field level assistance. In addition, we offer product discounts to our sales partners. Favorable product recommendations from our partners to potential customers, which include leading system integration, application development and platform manufacturers, facilitate the sale of our products. We believe that such indirect sales channels allow us to leverage sales and service resources as well as marketing and industry-specific expertise to expand our user base and increase our market coverage. In addition, we have entered into agreements with resellers who resell our software on a stand-alone basis. 18 Table of Contents Reseller/System Integration Alliances. Our resellers/systems integration alliances include marketing partners who resell our software on a stand-alone basis, value-added resellers who resell the MicroStrategy platform software bundled with their own software applications and system integrators who deploy MicroStrategy solutions to their customers. These marketing partners include: 2 finity Accenture AIM Computer Consultants Alliance Consulting Annams Systems Corporation ASAP — Dell Aster Data Aviana Global AZ Dimensional BearingPoint BI-Basics BI Source Biltmore Technologies CapGemini Carpio Cherokee Consulting Chicago Business Intelligence Group Cognizant Comsys CSC DataFactz DBWorks e2e Technologies EC Data Exigent Partners Fujitsu Consulting Fujitsu Transaction Solutions Hewlett-Packard Company High Impact Technologies, Inc. IBM InfoCepts Infostep Infosys Inspironix Integrant, Inc. iOLAP, Inc. IT Illuminations Jelecos Keyrus Lancet Software Development, Inc. Lodestar Systems Lunexa Marlabs mLogica Mobile Software Momentum Consulting MResult NCS Ontime BI PBI Research Persistent Systems Prithvi Solutions Pros Revenue Management Quadrant QuantiSense RazorKnowledge SAIC SBIZSERVICES Software by Design Software House International Soluciones Southport Services Strategic Enterprise Solutions Sybase Syntel Systec Solutions Tahoe Partners TCS Teradata Thaxton Consulting Group TML Solutions WCI Consulting Wipro Z Y Solutions OEM Partners. Our OEM partners integrate the MicroStrategy Business Intelligence Platform or some of its components into their applications. Our OEM partners include: Activant Solutions Inc Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. AFS Technologies Agdata Agentrics Alloso Alpha Bay Corporation Amdocs, Inc. Aperio CI Attensity Autometrics Big Machines BI Retail Blazent Inc. CadenceQuest Carrier IQ Cegedim | Target Software Clarabridge Conclusive Marketing Constellation Software Coradiant DECIMAL, Inc. DemandTec EmpowerMx EnvisionWare Escalate Retail Fastech Harris Hubwoo IBM | iPhrase InQuira IQS iTrade Network Ketera Technologies, Inc. Kurt Salmon Associates LexisNexis Examen Maple Lake Marketing Direct, Inc. Marketing Software Company MarketStance MedAssets MI9 Business Intelligence Systems Inc. OATSystems Oracle | JD Edwards Oracle | Retek Pinnacle Corporation PointRight Prescient RapidMetrix Risk Management Solutions Rivermine Software RS Software Run.It SAND Technology SignalDemand Siperian SirsiDynix SmartOps SQLiaison Suncoast Solutions (Hospice Systems) Trizetto Veramark Vestmark Vision Chain Xtiva 19 Table of Contents Technology Partners. In order to deliver even higher value to our customers, MicroStrategy has integrated its business intelligence platform with the leading data warehouse and related technology platforms and software. We have integrated our platform with leading portal technology, extranet, transform and load technology and specialized display technology products to name just a few. Through our Technology Partner program, we continue our efforts to help ensure that customers can easily implement the MicroStrategy business intelligence platform alongside other chosen corporate technology standards. Our technology partners include: Ab Initio Adastra Adobe AMD Attunity Avnet Aster Data Clarabridge Composite Software ESRI Greenplum Software Goldengate Google Hewlett-Packard HyperRoll IBM Informatica Intel Kognitio KXEN Longview Solutions Microsoft Netezza Novell Oracle Pitney Bowes MapInfo PostgreSQL Quadrant QuantiSense Red Hat SAP SPSS Sun Microsystems Sybase Teradata Vertica Visual Crossing VMWare WhereScape Competition The markets for business intelligence software, analytical applications and information delivery are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, many companies in these markets are offering, or may soon offer, products that may compete with MicroStrategy products. MicroStrategy faces competitors in several broad categories, including business intelligence software, analytical processes, query tools, web-based reporting tools, and report delivery technology. Independent competitors that are primarily focused on business intelligence products include, among others, Actuate, Information Builders and the SAS Institute. We also compete with large software corporations including suppliers of enterprise resource planning software that provide one or more capabilities competitive with our products, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP AG, Infor and others, and with open source business intelligence vendors, including Pentaho, JasperSoft and others. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, many of our competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business intelligence industry. As a result, they may be able to prevent MicroStrategy from penetrating new accounts or expanding within existing accounts due to their greater influence. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to meet the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. For example, Oracle acquired Hyperion Solutions in April 2007, IBM acquired Cognos in January 2008 and SAP acquired Business Objects in January 2008. By doing so, these competitors may increase their ability to meet the needs of our potential customers. Our current or prospective indirect channel partners may establish cooperative relationships with our current or future competitors. These relationships may limit our ability to sell our products through specific distribution channels. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among current and future competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market 20 Table of Contents share. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain technical support revenues from our installed customer base. Research and Product Development We have made, and continue to make, substantial investments in research and product development. We believe that our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product line, develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. As of December 31, 2008, our research and product development staff consisted of 374 employees, 341 of whom were working on our core business intelligence projects and 33 of whom were working on research and development relating to our Angel.com and Alarm.com businesses. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of 1,915 employees, of whom 1,109 were based in the United States and 806 were based internationally. Of the total of 1,915 employees, 685 were engaged in sales and marketing, 374 in research and development, 501 in technical support, consulting and education services, and 355 in finance, administration and corporate operations. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our relations with our employees to be good. We believe that effective recruiting, education and nurturing of human resources are critical to our success and have traditionally made investments in these areas in order to differentiate ourselves from our competition, increase employee loyalty and create a culture conducive to creativity, cooperation and continuous improvement. All newly hired technical and sales professionals complete a professional orientation course that ranges from one day to four weeks long. The curriculum consists of lectures, problem sets and independent and group projects, covering data on our products, competitors and customers. Certain lectures also deal with general business practices and teamwork. Throughout this training, students typically must pass a number of oral and written examinations in order to begin their assignments. Course content is created by experienced members of our professional staff, who generally have an annual obligation to update course content based upon the best practices they have most recently observed in the field. This expert content is then used to upgrade and revitalize our education, consulting, support, technology and marketing operations. Available Information MicroStrategy’s website is located at www.microstrategy.com. MicroStrategy makes available free of charge, on or through our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Information found on our website is not part of this report or any other report filed with the SEC. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing MicroStrategy. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our class A common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 21 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock For a number of reasons, including those described below, our operating results, revenues and expenses have in the past varied and may in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our class A common stock. Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, in part, as a result of: • the size, timing, volume and execution of significant orders and shipments; • the mix of products and services of customer orders, which can affect whether we recognize revenue upon the signing and delivery of our software products or whether revenue must be recognized as work progresses or over the entire contract period; • the timing of new product announcements by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • market acceptance of business intelligence software generally and of new and enhanced versions of our products in particular; • the length of our sales cycles; • seasonal factors, such as our traditionally lower pace of new license transactions in the summer; • changes in our operating expenses; • personnel changes; • our use of direct and indirect distribution channels; • utilization of our consulting and education services, which can be affected by delays or deferrals of customer implementation of our software products; • the quarterly performance of our Angel.com business unit, which is highly variable and particularly difficult to forecast; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • our profitability and expectations for future profitability and its effect on our deferred tax assets and net income for the period in which any adjustment to our net deferred tax asset valuation allowance may be made; • increases or decreases in our liability for unrecognized tax benefits under FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”; and • changes in customer budgets. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. Many of our expenses, such as office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our class A common stock may fall. 22 Table of Contents The trading price for our class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile The trading price of our class A common stock historically has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our class A common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • any major change in our board or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in earnings estimates; • announcements about our earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations, the likelihood of which may be enhanced because it is our policy not to give guidance relating to our anticipated financial performance in future periods; • announcements by our competitors of their earnings that are not in line with analyst expectations; • the volume of shares of class A common stock available for public sale; • sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; • short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving shares of our class A common stock; and • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Revenue recognition accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported results of operations We continuously review our compliance with all new and existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements. Depending upon the outcome of these ongoing reviews and the potential issuance of further accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations, we may be required to modify our reported results, revenue recognition policies or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes and non-income taxes in a variety of domestic and foreign jurisdictions. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings that are lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and earnings that are higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. 23 Table of Contents Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. For example, we are currently under tax audit in the UK and Germany. Any adverse outcome of such a review could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Moreover, as a multinational business, we have subsidiaries that engage in many intercompany transactions in a variety of tax jurisdictions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We also have contingent tax liabilities that, in management’s judgment, are not probable of assertion. If such unasserted contingent liabilities were to be asserted, or become probable of assertion, we may be required to record significant expenses and liabilities in the period in which these liabilities are asserted or become probable of assertion. As a result of these and other factors, the ultimate amount of tax obligations owed may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and any such difference may materially affect our financial results in future periods in which we change our estimates of our tax obligations or in which the ultimate tax outcome is determined. If the market for business intelligence software fails to grow as we expect, or if businesses fail to adopt our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Nearly all of our revenues to date have come from sales of business intelligence software and related technical support, consulting and education services. We expect these sales to account for a large portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Although demand for business intelligence software has grown in recent years, the market for business intelligence software applications is still evolving. Resistance from consumer and privacy groups to increased commercial collection and use of data on spending patterns and other personal behavior and governmental restrictions on the collection and use of personal data may impair the further growth of this market, as may other developments. We cannot be sure that this market will continue to grow or, even if it does grow, that businesses will adopt our solutions. We have spent, and intend to keep spending, considerable resources to educate potential customers about business intelligence software in general and our solutions in particular. However, we cannot be sure that these expenditures will help our products achieve any additional market acceptance. If the market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently expect, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Current economic uncertainties, and particularly the downturn in the financial services and retail industries, could adversely affect our business and results of operations General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause our customers to slow spending on our products and services, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our results would be negatively impacted. We have a significant number of customers in the financial services and retail industries. The significant downturn in these industries may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. In addition, customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Also, customers with excess information technology resources may choose to develop in-house software solutions rather than obtain those solutions from us. Moreover, competitors may 24 Table of Contents respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in the financial services industry may result in reduced overall spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, generally or in the financial services and retail industries. If the downturn in the general economy or markets in which we operate persists or worsens from present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face intense competition, which may lead to lower prices for our products, reduced gross margins, loss of market share and reduced revenue The markets for business intelligence software, analytical applications and information delivery are intensely competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, many companies in these markets are offering, or may soon offer, products and services that may compete with MicroStrategy products. MicroStrategy faces competitors in several broad categories, including business intelligence software, analytical processes, query and web-based reporting tools, and report delivery. Independent competitors that are primarily focused on business intelligence products include, among others, Actuate, Information Builders and the SAS Institute. We also compete with large software corporations, including suppliers of enterprise resource planning software that provide one or more capabilities competitive with our products, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP AG, and Infor, and with open source business intelligence vendors, including Pentaho and JasperSoft. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many of our competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers and extensive knowledge of the business intelligence industry. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the failure to meet the competitive pressures we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. For example, Oracle acquired Hyperion Solutions in April 2007, IBM acquired Cognos in January 2008 and SAP acquired Business Objects in January 2008. By doing so, these competitors may increase their ability to meet the needs of our potential customers. Our current or prospective indirect channel partners may establish cooperative relationships with our current or future competitors. These relationships may limit our ability to sell our products through specific distribution channels. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among current and future competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. These developments could limit our ability to obtain revenues from new customers and to maintain technical support revenues from our installed customer base. We depend on revenue from a single suite of products Our MicroStrategy business intelligence platform and related products account for a substantial portion of our revenue. Because of this revenue concentration, our business could be harmed by a decline in demand for, or in the prices of, our MicroStrategy business intelligence platform software as a result of, among other factors, any change in our pricing model, increased competition, a maturation in the markets for these products or other risks described in this document. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and release product enhancements and new products to respond to rapid technological change in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changing customer demands and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies can quickly make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. We believe that our future success depends largely on three factors: • our ability to continue to support a number of popular operating systems and databases; • our ability to maintain and improve our current product line; and • our ability to rapidly develop new products that achieve market acceptance, maintain technological competitiveness and meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Business intelligence applications are inherently complex, and it can take a long time and require significant research and development expenditures to develop and test new products and product enhancements. In addition, customers may delay their purchasing decisions because they anticipate that new or enhanced versions of our products will soon become available. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, product enhancements or new products that respond to technological change or new customer requirements, nor can we be sure that any new products and product enhancements, such as the MicroStrategy 9 suite of products that we expect to make generally available in the first quarter of 2009, will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, even if we introduce a new product, we may experience a decline in revenues of our existing products that is not fully matched by the new product’s revenue. For example, customers may delay making purchases of a new product to permit them to make a more thorough evaluation of the product, or until industry and marketplace reviews become widely available. Some customers may hesitate migrating to a new product due to concerns regarding the complexity of migration and product infancy issues on performance. In addition, we may lose existing customers who choose a competitor’s product rather than migrate to our new product. This could result in a temporary or permanent revenue shortfall and materially affect our business. Business disruptions could affect our operating results A significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a single facility in northern Virginia. We are also a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services. A major earthquake, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We use strategic channel partners and if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected In addition to our direct sales force, we use strategic channel partners such as value-added resellers, system integrators and original equipment manufacturers to license and support our products. For the year ended December 31, 2008, transactions by channel partners for which we recognized revenues accounted for 4.4%, of our total product licenses revenues. Our channel partners generally offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. Because our channel partners generally do not have an exclusive relationship with us, we cannot be certain that they will prioritize or provide adequate resources to selling our products. Moreover, divergence in strategy or contract defaults by any of these channel partners may materially adversely affect our ability to develop, market, sell or support our products. Although we believe that direct sales will continue to account for a majority of product licenses revenues, we seek to maintain a significant level of indirect sales activities through our strategic channel partners. There 26 Table of Contents can be no assurance that our strategic partners will continue to cooperate with us when our distribution agreements expire or are up for renewal. In addition, there can be no assurance that actions taken or omitted to be taken by such parties will not adversely affect us. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our strategic partners. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these strategic partners, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we rely on our strategic channel partners to operate in accordance with the terms of their contractual agreements with us. For example, our agreements with our channel partners limit the terms and conditions pursuant to which they are authorized to resell or distribute our software and offer technical support and related services. We also typically require our channel partners to represent to us the dates and details of product license transactions sold through to end user customers. If our strategic channel partners do not comply with their contractual obligations to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our recognition of deferred revenue and advance payments and future customer purchase commitments is subject to future performance obligations and may not be representative of revenues for succeeding periods Our gross current and long-term deferred revenue and advance payments totaled $130.8 million as of December 31, 2008. We offset our accounts receivable and deferred revenue for any billed and unpaid items, which totaled $62.6 million, resulting in net deferred revenue and advance payments of $68.2 million as of December 31, 2008. The timing and ultimate recognition of our deferred revenue and advance payments depend on various factors, including our performance of various service obligations. We have also entered into certain additional agreements that include future minimum commitments by our customers to purchase products, product support or other services through 2013 totaling approximately $52.5 million. These future commitments are not included in our deferred revenue balances. Because of the possibility of customer changes or delays in customer development or implementation schedules or budgets, and the need for us to satisfactorily perform product support services, deferred revenue and advance payments at any particular date may not be representative of actual revenue for any succeeding period. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future We generated net income for each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006; however, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly or revenues fall below our expectations, we may cease to be profitable and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We have significant deferred tax assets, and if we are unable to sustain profitability, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against these deferred tax assets, which would result in a charge that would adversely affect net income in the period in which the charge is incurred. Managing our international operations is complex and our failure to do so successfully or in a cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition We receive a significant portion of our total revenues from international sales from foreign direct and indirect operations. International revenues accounted for 40.4%, 38.0% and 36.8% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our international operations require significant management attention and financial resources. There are certain risks inherent in our international business activities including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 27 Table of Contents • tariffs, export restrictions and other trade barriers; • costs of localizing products; • lack of acceptance of localized products; • difficulties in and costs of staffing, managing and operating our international operations; • tax issues, including restrictions on repatriating earnings; • weaker intellectual property protection; • economic weakness or currency related crises; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of laws, including labor laws; • generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • our ability to adapt to sales practices and customer requirements in different cultures; and • political instability in the countries where we are doing business. In addition, compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions, and our international operations could expose us to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with these regulations. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, partners and other persons with whom we do business will not take actions in violation of our policies or these laws. Any violations of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines or prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand and our international expansion efforts. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may lose sales, or sales may be delayed, due to the long sales and implementation cycles for our products, which could reduce our revenues To date, our customers have typically invested substantial time, money and other resources and involved many people in the decision to license our software products and purchase our consulting and other services. As a result, we may wait nine months or more after the first contact with a customer for that customer to place an order while it seeks internal approval for the purchase of our products and/or services. During this long sales cycle, events may occur that affect the size or timing of the order or even cause it to be canceled. For example, our competitors may introduce new products, or the customer’s own budget and purchasing priorities may change. Even after an order is placed, the time it takes to deploy our products and complete consulting engagements can vary widely. Implementing our product can take several months, depending on the customer’s needs, and may begin only with a pilot program. It may be difficult to deploy our products if the customer has complicated deployment requirements, which typically involve integrating databases, hardware and software from different vendors. If a customer hires a third party to deploy our products, we cannot be sure that our products will be deployed successfully. 28 Table of Contents Our results in any particular period may depend upon the number and volume of large transactions in that period and these transactions may involve more lengthy, complex and unpredictable sales cycles than other transactions As existing and potential customers seek to standardize on a single business intelligence vendor, our business may experience larger transactions at the enterprise level and larger transactions may account for a greater proportion of our business. The presence or absence of one or more large transactions in a particular period may have a material positive or negative effect on our revenue and operating results for that period. During 2008, our top three product license transactions totaled approximately $9.1 million of recognized revenue, including one transaction with $4.0 million of recognized revenue, compared to $5.7 million of recognized revenue in 2007, or 9.5% and 5.7% of total product licenses revenues during 2008 and 2007, respectively. These transactions represent significant business and financial decisions for our customers and require considerable effort on the part of customers to assess alternative products and require additional levels of management approval before being concluded. They are also often more complex than smaller transactions. These factors generally lengthen the typical sales cycle and increase the risk that the customer’s purchasing decision may be postponed or delayed from one period to another subsequent or later period or that the customer will alter his purchasing requirements. The sales effort and service delivery scope for larger transactions also require additional resources to execute the transaction. These factors could result in lower than anticipated revenue and earnings for a particular period or in the reduction of estimated revenue and earnings in future periods. We face a variety of risks in doing business with the U.S. and foreign governments, various state and local governments, and agencies, including risks related to the procurement process, budget constraints and cycles, termination of contracts and audits Our customers include the U.S. government and a number of state and local governments or agencies. There are a variety of risks in doing business with government entities, including: Procurement. Contracting with public sector customers is highly competitive and can be time-consuming and expensive, requiring that we incur significant up-front time and expense without any assurance that we will win a contract. Budgetary Constraints and Cycles. Demand and payment for our products and services are impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding availability, with funding reductions or delays adversely impacting public sector demand for our products and services. Termination of Contracts. Public sector customers often have contractual or other legal rights to terminate current contracts for convenience or due to a default. If a contract is terminated for convenience, which can occur if the customer’s needs change, we may only be able to collect for products or services delivered prior to termination and settlement expenses. If a contract is terminated because of default, we may not recover even those amounts, and we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the customer for procuring alternative products or services. Audits. The U.S. government and state and local governments and agencies routinely investigate and audit government contractors for compliance with a variety of complex laws, regulations, and contract provisions relating to the formation, administration or performance of government contracts, including provisions governing reports of and remittances of fees based on sales under government contracts, price protection, compliance with socio-economic policies, and other terms that are particular to government contracts. If, as a result of an audit or review, it is determined that we have failed to comply with such laws, regulations or contract provisions, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, cost associated with the triggering of price reduction clauses, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, and we may suffer harm to our reputation. 29 Table of Contents Our customers also include a number of foreign governments and agencies. Similar procurement, budgetary, contract and audit risks also apply to our doing business with these entities. In addition, compliance with complex regulations and contracting provisions in a variety of jurisdictions can be expensive and consume significant management resources. In certain jurisdictions our ability to win business may be constrained by political and other factors unrelated to our competitive position in the market. Each of these difficulties could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could impair our software, delay implementation of our products or force us to pay higher license fees We license third-party technologies that we incorporate into our existing products. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to license third-party software for future products. In addition, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms. Changes in or the loss of third party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing or to our software products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced, with the result that we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products, and we may experience a decreased demand for our products. If we are unable to recruit or retain skilled personnel, or if we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected Our future success depends on our continuing ability to attract, train, assimilate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these employees is intense. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly skilled personnel in the future. Our future success also depends in large part on the continued service of key management personnel, particularly Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sanju K. Bansal, our Vice Chairman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. If we lose the services of one or both of these individuals or other key personnel, or if we are unable to attract, train, assimilate and retain the highly skilled personnel we need, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The emergence of new industry standards may adversely affect the demand for our existing products The emergence of new industry standards in related fields may adversely affect the demand for our existing products. This could happen, for example, if new web standards and technologies emerged that were incompatible with customer deployments of our products. MicroStrategy currently supports SQL and MDX standards in database access technology. If we are unable to adapt our products on a timely basis to new standards in database access technology, the ability of MicroStrategy’s products to access customer databases could be impaired. In addition, the emergence of new standards in the field of operating system support could adversely affect the demand for our existing products. MicroStrategy technology is currently compatible with nearly all major operating systems, including, among others, Windows Server, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX, HP’s HP-UX, Red Hat Linux AS and SuSE Linux Enterprise Server. If a different operating system were to gain widespread acceptance, we may not be able to achieve compatibility on a timely basis, resulting in an adverse effect on the demand for our products. The nature of our products makes them particularly vulnerable to undetected errors, or bugs, which could cause problems with how the products perform and which could in turn reduce demand for our products, reduce our revenue and lead to product liability claims against us Software products as complex as ours may contain errors and/or defects. Although we test our products extensively, we have in the past discovered software errors in our products after their introduction. Despite testing by us and by our current and potential customers, errors may be found in new products or releases after 30 Table of Contents commercial shipments begin. This could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation or delays in market acceptance, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also have to expend resources and capital to correct these defects. Our license agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability, warranty and other claims. It is possible, however, that these provisions may not be effective under the laws of certain domestic or international jurisdictions and we may be exposed to product liability, warranty and other claims. A successful product liability claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights We periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. We expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and level of competition in our industry segments grow, the functionality of products overlap, and the volume of issued software patents and patent applications continues to increase. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling certain of our products; • require us to redesign certain of our products using alternative non-infringing technology or practices, which could require significant effort and expense; or • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. For example, on November 8, 2007 Diagnostic Systems Corp. (DSC), a subsidiary of Acacia Technology Group, filed a complaint for patent infringement against MicroStrategy and a number of other unrelated defendants in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Southern Division. The case has been consolidated with Case No. SA CV 07-896 AG (MLGx) pending against other unrelated defendants. The consolidated complaint accuses MicroStrategy of infringing U.S. Patent No. 5,537,590 directly, contributorily and by inducement by making, using, selling and offering for sale in the United States MicroStrategy 8 Business Intelligence Platform, when used with an appropriate database. The consolidated complaint accuses MicroStrategy of willful infringement and seeks damages, a finding that the case is 31 Table of Contents exceptional and an award of attorneys’ fees, and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. In its initial disclosures pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26(a) served on December 28, 2007, DSC declined to disclose the amount of its alleged damages, but disclosed that its alleged damages are based on a reasonable royalty theory. MicroStrategy answered the consolidated complaint on December 28, 2007, denied infringement, asserted affirmative defenses of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability, among others, and counter-claimed for declaratory judgment that the ‘590 patent is not infringed, is invalid, and is unenforceable. The Court has not yet set a trial date. This case had been stayed in its entirety pending resolution of a writ of mandamus filed by DSC in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit challenging an order by the District Court compelling DSC to produce documents to defendants in discovery that DSC alleges are privileged. The Federal Circuit denied DSC’s request for a writ of mandamus at the end of 2008, and the District Court has lifted the stay on the litigation. A revised schedule for the litigation has not yet been set by the Court. The outcome of this litigation is not presently determinable. Pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition In addition to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we have been subject to other litigation. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the liability relating to pending litigation and determine that it is probable, we record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be wrong. In addition to the related cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Because of the rights of our two classes of common stock, and because we are controlled by our existing holders of class B common stock, these stockholders could transfer control of MicroStrategy to a third party without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, prevent a third party from acquiring MicroStrategy, or limit your ability to influence corporate matters We have two classes of common stock: class A common stock and class B common stock. Holders of our class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of our class B common stock, except that holders of class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of class B common stock have ten votes per share. As of February 2, 2009, holders of our class B common stock owned 2,770,244 shares of class B common stock, or 75.2% of the total voting power. Michael J. Saylor, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 399,800 shares of class A common stock and 2,429,582 shares of class B common stock, or 67.1% of the total voting power, as of February 2, 2009. Accordingly, Mr. Saylor is able to control MicroStrategy through his ability to determine the outcome of elections of our directors, amend our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and take other actions requiring the vote or consent of stockholders, including mergers, going-private transactions and other extraordinary transactions and their terms. Our certificate of incorporation allows holders of class B common stock, all of whom are current employees or directors of our company or related parties, to transfer shares of class B common stock, subject to the approval of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock could, without the approval of our Board of Directors or our other stockholders, transfer voting control of MicroStrategy to a third party. Such a transfer of control could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Mr. Saylor or a group of stockholders possessing a majority of the outstanding class B common stock will also be able to prevent a change of control of MicroStrategy, regardless of whether holders of class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. In addition, this concentrated control limits stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our non-controlling stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our class A common stock could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 