Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Business Inability or delayed execution on our strategy to be a leading provider of semiconductor IP platforms could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. From inception to May 2002, most of our revenues derived from the license of our embedded memory products. After our acquisition of In-Chip Systems, Inc. in May 2002, we expanded our product offering to also include logic products. In 2003, we added I/Os to our product offering to enable us to offer semiconductor IP platform. If our strategy to be a provider of semiconductor IP platforms is not broadly accepted by potential customers or acceptance is delayed for any reason, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our profitability could also be adversely affected due to investment of resources directed to the development and/or acquisition of logic and I/O products and due to lower than anticipated revenues from the sale of such products. Factors that could prevent us from gaining market acceptance of our semiconductor IP platform include: • difficulties in convincing customers of our memory products to purchase other products from us; • competition resulting in minority market share; and • difficulties and delays in expanding our logic and I/O product offerings. 14 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and any failure to meet financial expectations for any fiscal quarter may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and on an annual basis due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of Virage Logic’s control. Factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter include: • large orders unevenly spaced over time; • establishment or loss of strategic relationships with third-party semiconductor foundries; • pace of adoption of new technologies by customers; • timing of new technologies and technology enhancements by us and our competitors; • fluctuations in the demand for products that incorporate our IP; • constrained or deferred spending decisions by customers; • inability to collect trade receivables; • the timing and completion of milestones under customer agreements; • operational issues in fulfilling existing orders; • the impact of competition on license revenues or royalty rates; • the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the general economic environment; • difficulties in forecasting royalty revenues because of factors out of our control, such as the timing and manufacturing of semiconductors subject to royalty obligations, the number of such semiconductors actually manufactured and the timing and results of audits of royalty reports received from our customers; • changes in development schedules, research and development expenditure levels and product support by us and our customers; and • recording a significant portion of our quarterly revenues in the last month of a quarter. This is the result of closing more product orders, and therefore, a higher percentage of product shipments, in the last month of a quarter than in the first months of a quarter. Some customers believe they can enhance their bargaining power by waiting until the end of the quarter to finalize negotiations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and may not be reliable as indicators of future performance. These factors, together with the fact that our expenses are primarily fixed and independent of revenues in any particular period, make it difficult for us to accurately predict our revenues and operating results and may cause them to be below market analysts’ expectations in some quarters, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline significantly. If we are unable to continue establishing relationships on favorable contractual terms with semiconductor companies to license our IP, our business will be harmed. We currently rely on license fees from the sale of perpetual and term licenses to generate a large portion of our revenues. These licenses produce streams of revenue in the periods in which the license fees are recognized, but are not necessarily indicative of a commensurate level of revenue from the same customers in future periods. In addition, our agreements with our customers do not obligate them to license new or future generations of our IP. As a result, the growth of our business depends significantly on our ability to expand our business with existing customers and attract new customers. We face numerous challenges in entering into license agreements with semiconductor companies on terms beneficial to our business, including: • the lengthy and expensive process of building a relationship with a potential customers; 15 Table of Contents • competition with the customers’ internal design teams and other providers of semiconductor IP as our customers may evaluate these alternatives for each design; and • the need to persuade semiconductor companies to rely on us for critical technology. These factors may make it difficult for us to maintain our current relationships or establish new relationships with additional customers. Further, there are a finite number of fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers to which we can license our IP. If we are unable to establish and maintain these relationships, we will be unable to generate license fees, and our revenues will decrease. If we are unable to maintain existing relationships and/or develop new relationships with third-party semiconductor manufacturers or foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies on their processes and license our IP to them or their customers and our business will be harmed. Our ability to verify our technologies for new manufacturing processes depends on entering into development agreements with third-party foundries to provide us with access to these processes. In addition, we rely on third-party foundries to manufacture our silicon test chips, to provide referrals to their customer base and to help define the focus of our research and development activities. We currently have agreements with TSMC, UMC, Chartered, Tower, Silterra, SMIC and Dongbu Electronics. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships with these foundries or enter into new agreements with other foundries, we will be unable to verify our technologies for their manufacturing processes and our ability to develop products for emerging technologies will be hampered. As of consequence, we would be unable to license our IP to fabless semiconductor companies that use these foundries to manufacture their silicon chips, which is a significant source of our revenues. We may be unable to deliver our customized memory, logic and I/O products in the time-frame demanded by our customers, which could damage our reputation and future sales. A portion of our agreements require us to provide customized products to our customers within a specified delivery timetable. While we have experienced delays in delivering products to our customers, the durations of these delays have typically been short in length so as to not materially damage our relationship with our customers. However, these delays could adversely impact our operations and our financial performance. Future failures to meet significant customer milestones could damage our reputation in our industry and harm our ability to attract new customers. If we are unsuccessful in increasing our royalty revenues, our revenues and profitability may not be as large as we anticipate. We have agreements with certain third-party semiconductor foundries to pay us royalties on their sales of silicon chips they manufacture for our fabless customers. Beginning with our STAR Memory System and more recently with the introduction of our NOVeA technology, in addition to collecting royalties from third-party semiconductor foundries, we intend to increase our royalty base by collecting royalties directly from our integrated device manufacturer and fabless customers. However, we may not be successful in convincing all customers to agree to pay us royalties. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recorded royalty revenues of approximately $16.1 million, $11.0 million and $8.2 million, respectively. The continued growth of our revenues depends in part on increasing our royalty revenues, but we may not be successful in increasing our royalty revenues as expected and we face difficulties in forecasting our royalty revenues because of many factors beyond our control, such as fluctuating sales volumes of products that incorporate our IP, short or unpredictable product life cycles for some customer products containing our IP, potential slow down for manufacturing of certain newer process technology, foundry rate adjustments, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry that affects the number of designs, commercial acceptance of these products, accuracy of revenue reports received from our customers and difficulties in the royalty collection process. In addition, occasionally we have completed agreements whereby significant upfront license fees are reduced or limited in exchange for higher royalty rates, which should result in future royalty revenues, but these royalty arrangements may not provide us with the anticipated benefits as sales of products incorporating our IP may not offset lower license fees. 16 Table of Contents It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing arrangements, and this may cause us to lose revenues or inaccurately report revenues. The standard terms of our license agreements require our customers to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. While standard license terms give us the right to audit the books and records of our customers to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our customers. Our inability to audit all of our customers’ books and records may result in us receiving more or less royalty revenue than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. The results of such audits could also result in an increase, as a result of a customers’ underpayment, or decrease, as a result of a customers’ overpayment, to royalty revenues. Such adjustments, as a result of the audit, are recorded in the period they are determined. Any adverse material adjustments resulting from royalty audits may cause our revenues and operating results to be below market expectations, which could cause our stock price to decline. The royalty audit may also trigger disagreements over contractual terms with our customers and such disagreements could adversely affect customer relationship, divert the efforts and attention of our management from normal operations and impact our business operations. Products that do not meet customer specifications or contain defects that harm our customers could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. The complexity and ongoing development of our products could lead to design or manufacturing problems. Our semiconductor IP products may fail to meet our customers’ technical requirements, or may contain defects, which may cause our customers to fail to complete the design and manufacturing of their products in a timely manner. Any of these problems may harm our customers’ businesses. If any of our products fail to meet specifications or have reliability or quality problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenue, an increase in product returns and the loss of existing customers or failure to attract new customers. These problems may adversely affect customer relationships, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. As advanced process nodes become more complex we may have difficulty in delivering product specifications in similar timeframes and at comparable costs to older process nodes. The increasing complexity of our product at advanced nodes requires different customer engagements and validation strategies. Such changes require the acceptance of different business terms and schedules by our customers. They also may require an increase of test silicon for purposes of validating performance parameters. Such changes may impact our ability to acquire new customers and could increase our operating expenses. Our international operations may be adversely affected by instability in the countries in which we operate. We currently have subsidiaries or branches in Armenia, India, the United Kingdom, Israel, Germany and Japan. In addition, a significant portion of our IP is being developed in development centers located in the Republic of Armenia and India. Israel continues to face an increased level of violence and terror. India is experiencing rising costs. Armenia, only independent since 1991, has suffered significant political and economic instability. Accordingly, conditions in areas of the world in which we operate may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including the following: • changes in the political or economic conditions in Armenia and changes in the economic conditions in India and the surrounding region, such as fluctuations in exchange rates, changes in laws protecting IP, the imposition of currency transfer restrictions or limitations, or the adoption of burdensome trade or tax policies, procedures, rules, regulations or tariffs, changes in the demand for technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to develop new products, to take advantage of the cost savings associated with operations in Armenia and India, and to otherwise conduct business effectively in Armenia and India; • our ability to continue conducting business in Israel and other countries in the normal course may be adversely affected by increased risk of social and political instability; and 17 Table of Contents • our Israeli customers’ demand for our products may be adversely affected because of negative economic consequences associated with reduced levels of safety and security in Israel. Problems associated with international business operations could affect our ability to license our IP. Sales to customers located outside North America accounted for 60%, 63% and 62% of our revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, sales to customers located outside North America accounted for 68% and 61% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales to customers located outside North America will increase and will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future periods. In addition, most of our customers that do not own their own foundries rely on third-party foundries located outside of North America. Accordingly, our operations and revenues are subject to a number of risks associated with international business operations, including the following: • managing foreign distributors and sales partners and sharing revenues with such third-parties; • staffing and managing foreign branch offices and subsidiaries; • political and economic instability; • greater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods; • foreign currency exchange fluctuations; • changes in tax laws and tariffs or the interpretation of such laws and tariffs; • compliance with, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar; • timing and availability of export licenses; • inadequate protection of IP rights in some countries; and • United States government licensing requirements for exports, which may lengthen the sales cycle or restrict or prohibit the sale or licensing of certain products. If these risks actually materialize, our international operations may be adversely affected and sales to international customers, as well as those domestic customers that use foreign foundries, may decrease. We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenues. Historically, because of the complexity of our products, it can take a significant amount of time and effort to explain the benefits of our products and to negotiate a sale. For example, it generally takes at least three to nine months after our first contact with a prospective customer before we begin licensing our IP to that customer. In addition, purchase of our products is usually made in connection with new design starts, the timing of which is out of our control. Accordingly, we may be unable to predict accurately the timing of any significant future sales of our products. We may also spend substantial time and management attention on potential license agreements that are not consummated, thereby foregoing other opportunities. We rely on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and our accounts receivables are concentrated among a small number of customers. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our annual revenues in each fiscal year, although the customers comprising this group have changed from time to time. One customer, TSMC, generated 10% or more of our revenues for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005. No single customer generated 10% or more of our revenues for the year ended September 30, 2004. Since fiscal year 2001, our five largest customers have represented between 25-47% of our revenues. The license agreements we enter into with our customers do not obligate them to license future generations of our IP and, as a result, we cannot predict if and when they will purchase additional products from us. As a result of this customer concentration, we could experience a dramatic reduction in our revenues if we lose one or more of our significant customers and are unable 18 Table of Contents to replace them. In addition, since our accounts receivable are concentrated in a relatively small number of customers, a significant change in the liquidity, financial position, or issues regarding timing of payments of any one of these customers could have a material adverse impact on the collectability of our accounts receivable, historical revenues recorded and our future operating results. We may have difficulty sustaining profitability and may experience additional losses in the future. We recorded a net loss of $0.9 million for fiscal year 2006 and a net loss of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2005. In order to improve our profitability, we will need to continue to generate new sales while controlling our costs. As we plan on continuing the growth of our business while implementing cost control measures, we may not be able to successfully generate enough revenues to return to profitability with this growth. Any failure to increase our revenues and control costs as we pursue our planned growth would harm our profitability and would likely negatively affect the market price of our stock. In addition, if we incurred losses for a sustained period we may be prevented from being able to fully utilize our deferred tax asset which will result in the need for a valuation allowance to be recorded. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel who are critical to the success of our business. We believe our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain engineers and other highly skilled personnel and senior managers. In addition, in order to grow our business we must increase our sales force, both domestic and international, with qualified employees. Hiring qualified technical, sales and management personnel is difficult due to a limited number of qualified professionals and competition in our industry for these types of employees. We have in the past experienced delays and difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified technical and sales personnel and believe that at times our employees are recruited aggressively by our competitors and start-up companies. Our employees are “at will” and may leave our employment at any time, and under certain circumstances, start-up companies can offer more attractive stock option packages than we offer. As a result, we may experience significant employee turnover. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly sales and technical personnel would make it difficult for us to develop and market our technologies. In addition, our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key personnel, including Adam A. Kablanian, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Alexander Shubat, our Vice President of Research and Development and Chief Technical Officer. We do not have formal employment agreements with Mr. Kablanian or Mr. Shubat and do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on their lives. If Mr. Kablanian or Mr. Shubat were to leave or become unable to perform services for our Company, our business could be severely harmed. We may need additional capital that may not be available to us and, if raised, may dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest in us. We may need to raise additional funds to develop or enhance our technologies, to fund expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary products, businesses or technologies. Additional financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would be reduced and these securities might have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business may be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to successfully manage our growth. Our ability to manage our business successfully in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. Our customers rely heavily on our technological expertise in designing and testing our products. Relationships with new customers may require significant engineering resources. As a result, any increase in the demand for our products will increase the requirements on our personnel, particularly our engineers. 19 Table of Contents Our historical growth, international expansion, and our strategy of being a provider of semiconductor IP platforms, have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant challenge on our managerial and financial resources as well as our financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Although some new controls, systems and procedures have been implemented, our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls. Our inability to manage any future growth effectively would be harmful to our revenues and profitability. New financial accounting standards related to equity compensation will cause us to recognize an additional expense and we expect the adoption of such standards will have a significant effect on our consolidated statements of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, “Shared-Based Payments” (SFAS 123R), which requires the measurement of all employee share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value based method and the recording of such expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123R are effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. On October 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS 123R. The adoption of this new financial accounting standard has had a significant effect on our consolidated statements of operations. We have received assessment orders from the Government of India, Income Tax Department, Office of the Director of Income Tax (Indian Tax Authorities) proposing a tax deficiency in certain of our tax returns, and the outcome of the assessment or any future assessment involving similar claims may have an adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. The Indian Tax Authorities completed its assessment of our tax returns for the tax years 2000 through 2003 and issued assessment orders in which the Indian Tax Authorities proposes to assess an aggregate tax deficiency for the three year period of approximately $1.5 million, plus interest, which interest will accrue until the matter is resolved. The Indian Tax Authorities may also make similar claims for years subsequent to 2003 in future assessment. The assessment orders are not final notices of deficiency, and we have immediately filed appeals to the appellate tax authorities. We believe that the assessments are inconsistent with the applicable tax laws and that we have meritorious defense to the assessments. However, the ultimate outcome cannot be predicted with certainty, including the amount payable or the timing of any such payments upon resolution of the matter. Should the Indian Tax Authorities assess additional taxes as a result of a current or a future assessment, we may be required to record charges to operations in future periods that could have an adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. Risk Related to Our Industry If demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP platforms does not increase, our business may be harmed. Our business and the adoption and continued use of our IP by semiconductor companies depends on continued demand for products requiring complex semiconductors, embedded memories and logic elements, such as cellular and digital phones, pagers, PDAs, digital cameras, DVD players, switches and modems. The demand for such products is uncertain and difficult to predict, and it depends on factors beyond our control such as the competition faced by each customer, market acceptance of products that incorporate our IP and the financial and other resources of each customer. A reduction in the demand for products incorporating complex semiconductors and semiconductor IP or a decline in the general economic environment which results in the cutback of research and development budgets or capital expenditures would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and could harm our business. In addition, with increasing complexity in each successive generation of semiconductors, we face the risk that the rate of adoption of smaller technology processes may slow down. In addition, the semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Significant economic downturns characterized by diminished demand, erosion of average selling prices, production overcapacity and production capacity constraints 20 Table of Contents are other factors affecting the semiconductor industry. As a result, we may face a reduced number of design starts, tightening of customers’ operating budgets, extensions of the approval process for new orders and projects and consolidation among our customers, all of which may harm the demand for our products and may cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. Further, the markets for third-party semiconductor IP have emerged only in recent years. Because of the recent emergence of these markets, it is difficult to forecast whether these markets will continue to develop or grow at a rate sufficient to support our business. The market for semiconductor IP platforms can be highly competitive and dynamic. We may experience loss in market share to larger competitors with greater resources and/or our customer base may choose to develop semiconductor IP platforms using their own internal design teams. We face competition from both existing suppliers of third-party semiconductor IP, as well as new suppliers that may enter the market. We also compete with the internal design teams of large, integrated device manufacturers. Many of these internal design teams have substantial programming and design resources and are part of larger organizations with substantial financial and marketing resources. These internal teams may develop technologies that compete directly with our technologies or may actively seek to license their own technologies to third parties, which could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. In addition, our existing customers may choose to develop their own technology solutions internally. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and larger customer bases, as well as greater financial and marketing resources, than we do. This may allow them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. It may also allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of their products. In addition, the intense competition in the market for semiconductor IP could result in pricing pressures, reduced license revenues, reduced margins or lost market share, any of which could harm our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. The technology used in the semiconductor industry is rapidly changing and if we are unable to develop new technologies and adapt our existing IP to new processes, we will be unable to attract or retain customers. The semiconductor industry has been characterized by an increasingly rapid rate of development of new technologies and manufacturing processes, rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. Our future success depends on our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner, and to adapt our existing IP to satisfy the requirements of new processes and our customers. If our development efforts are not successful or are significantly delayed, or if the enhancements or new generations of our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may be unable to attract or retain customers and our operating results could be harmed. Our ability to continue developing technical innovations involves several risks, including: • our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changes in the requirements of semiconductor companies; • the emergence of new semiconductor manufacturing processes and our ability to enter into strategic relationships with third-party semiconductor foundries to develop and test technologies for these new processes and provide customer referrals; • the significant research and development investment that we may be required to make before market acceptance, if any, of a particular technology; • the possibility that the industry may not accept a new technology or may delay use of a new technology after we have invested a significant amount of resources to develop it; and • new technologies introduced by our competitors. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to adequately address these risks, our IP will become obsolete and we will be unable to sell our products. Further, as new technologies or manufacturing processes are announced, customers may defer licensing our IP until those new technologies become available or our IP has been adopted for that manufacturing process. In addition, research and development requires a significant expense and resource commitment. Since we have a limited operating history, we are unable to predict our future resource requirements. As a result, we may not have the financial and other resources necessary to develop the technologies demanded in the future and may be unable to attract or retain customers. General economic conditions and future terrorist attacks may reduce our revenues and harm our business. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Continued unrest in Israel and the Middle East may negatively impact the investments that our worldwide customers make in these geographic regions. If businesses or consumers defer or cancel purchases of new products that contain complex semiconductors, purchases by fabless semiconductor companies, integrated device manufacturers and production levels by semiconductor manufacturers could decline. This could adversely affect our revenues which in turn would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risk Related to Our Intellectual Property Rights We rely on our proprietary technologies and we cannot assure you that the precautions taken to protect our rights will be adequate or that we will continue to be able to adequately secure such proprietary technologies from third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, mask work and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights in our technologies. We cannot be sure that the United States Patent and Trademark Office will issue patents or trademarks for any of our pending applications. Further, any patents or trademark rights that we hold or may hold in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We have not attempted to secure patent protection in foreign countries. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our IP to the same extent as applicable laws protects our IP in the United States. For instance, some portion of our IP developed outside of the United States may not receive the same copyright protection that it would receive if it was developed in the United States. As we increase our international presence, we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor the development of competing technologies that may infringe on our rights as well as unauthorized use of our technologies. We use license agreements, confidentiality agreements and employee nondisclosure and assignment agreements to limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information and to obtain ownership of technology prepared on a work-for-hire basis. We cannot be sure that we have taken adequate steps to protect our IP rights and deter misappropriation of these rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take effective steps to enforce our rights. Since we also rely on unpatented trade secrets to protect some of our proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that others will not independently develop and patent the same technologies or otherwise acquire the same or substantially equivalent technologies or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose that technology. We also cannot be sure that we can ultimately protect our rights to and improperly disclose our proprietary technologies to others. Third parties may claim we are infringing or assisting others to infringe their IP rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from licensing our technology. We believe that our technologies do not infringe the IP rights of third parties to date. However, there are numerous patents in the semiconductor industry and new patents are being issued at a rapid rate. It is not always practicable to determine in advance whether our technologies infringe the patent right of others. As a result, we may be compelled to respond to infringement claims by third parties to protect our rights or defend our customers’ rights. These infringement claims, regardless of merit, could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management 22 Table of Contents and key personnel from our business operations. In settling these claims, we may be required to pay significant damages and may be prevented from licensing some of our technologies unless we enter into a royalty or license agreement. In addition, if challenging a claim is not feasible, we might be required to enter into royalty or license agreements. If available, the royalty or license agreement may include terms which require us to obtain a license from the third party to sell or use the relevant technology which may result in significant expenses to the Company or to redesign the technology which would be time consuming and costly to the Company. In the event that we are not be able to obtain such royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, we may be prevented from licensing or developing our technology. Risk Related to Our Stock Our stock price may be volatile and could decline substantially. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past, will likely continue to fluctuate in the future and may decline. Fluctuations or a decline in our stock price may occur regardless of our performance. Among the factors that could affect our stock price, in addition to our performance, are: • variations between our operating results and the published expectations of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products or services, acquisitions, or other significant transactions; • the inclusion or exclusion of our stock in various indices or investment categories, especially as compared to the investment profiles of our stockholders at a given time; • changes in economic and capital market conditions; • changes in business regulatory conditions; and • the trading volume of our common stock. A sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Adam Kablanian, President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, and Alexander Shubat, Vice President of Research and Development, Chief Technology Officer and a member of the Board of Directors, have adopted stock trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Both plans are in effect for a one-year period ending on December 11, 2006, and are subject to predetermined price and volume limits. Sales transactions are also subject to the restrictions and filing requirements mandated by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 144. Furthermore, our officers, directors and principal stockholders controled as of November 30, 2006 approximately 62% of our common stock. As a result, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages to owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. We determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2005, and upon such determination we have implemented supplemental procedures to remediate identified material weaknesses and to ensure that our financial statements are fairly stated in all material respects. Such material weaknesses could adversely affect investor confidence in our financial reports and the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to access effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and assert that such internal control is effective. Our independent registered public accounting firm must evaluate management’s assessment concerning the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and render an opinion on our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 23 Table of Contents As reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2005, our management had identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we had material weaknesses in the calculation and recording of foreign currency translations, the presentation and disclosure of income taxes and the presentation and disclosure of the investments in the statements of cash flows. We have implemented procedures and processes to remediate such material weaknesses, which are costly and require significant efforts by management and other employees. As of September 30, 2006, we had remediated all of our material weaknesses. However, we can give no assurance that other material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If further material weaknesses in our internal control are identified, this could cause our investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage transactions resulting in a change in control, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that make it more difficult for another company to acquire control of our Company. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • our Board of Directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • our Board of Directors is staggered into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; • nominations for election to our Board of Directors and the submission of matters to be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting are subject to advance notice requirements; • certain provisions in our bylaws and certificate may only be amended with the approval of stockholders holding 80% of our outstanding voting stock; • the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders is prohibited; and • our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in any “business combination” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 