ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks The Company’s business is subject to many risks. In addition to the other information in this document, you should consider carefully the following risk factors. Additional risk factors may impair the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks related to the Company’s business The Company's independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements that states that as a result of its liquidity position, current market conditions and the uncertainty relating to the outcome of its ongoing negotiations with its lenders substantial doubt has been raised about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company's independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern and further states that as a result of its liquidity position, current market conditions and the uncertainty relating to the outcome of the Company’s ongoing negotiations with its lenders these matters have raised substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The NYSE may consider delisting a company if the company receives an opinion from its independent registered public accounting firm that contains a going concern emphasis. The Company currently has no committed sources of capital and does not know whether additional financing will be available when needed on terms that are acceptable. The addition of this going concern language may make capital raising activity more difficult. The failure of the Company to satisfy its capital requirements will adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unless the Company raises additional funds, the Company will not have sufficient funds to continue operations. Even if the Company raises more capital, such actions may be insufficient to allow the Company to continue as a going concern. If the Company were to breach a financial covenant or fail to satisfy a margin call under any of its secured credit facilities and were not able to obtain a waiver from the applicable lenders, it would be unable to continue as a going concern. The Company's secured credit facilities contain various financial covenants that if breached could, after the applicable grace periods, result in the acceleration of all the debt under these facilities. If the Company were unable to obtain waivers of these breaches from its secured lenders, these breaches would constitute events of default under their respective facility. Furthermore, the Company's credit facilities allow the lender, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to reflect market value. If a lender determines that the value of the collateral has decreased, it may initiate a margin call requiring the Company to post additional collateral to cover the decrease or to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowing with minimal notice. If the Company were unable to satisfy a margin call within the timeframes required by the applicable lender or obtain a waiver from the lender, it would be in default under such facility. 24 Financial covenants in the Company’s secured credit facilities include, without limitation, a covenant that the Company’s net income will not be less than $1.00 for any period of two consecutive quarters and covenants that on any date the Company’s tangible net worth will not have decreased by twenty percent or more from the Company’s tangible net worth as of the last business day in the third month preceding such date. The Company’s significant net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2008 resulted in the Company not being in compliance with these covenants. On March 17, 2009, the secured credit facility lenders waived this covenant breach until April 1, 2009. In addition, the Company’s secured credit facility with Holdco 2 requires the Company to immediately repay outstanding borrowings under the facility to the extent outstanding borrowings exceed 60% of the fair market value (as determined by the Company’s manager) of the shares of common stock of Carbon Capital II, Inc. Carbon II securing such facility. As of February 28, 2009, 60% of the fair market value of such shares declined to approximately $24,840 and outstanding borrowings under the facility were $33,450. On March 17, 2009, Holdco 2 waived this breach until April 1, 2009. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company received a margin call of $46,300 and C$5,300 from one of its secured credit facility lenders. As part of the Company’s ongoing negotiation with this lender and the other secured credit facility lenders, the Company has been negotiating to have the margin call waived in consideration of certain agreements to be made by the Company. On March 17, 2009, the lender waived this event of default until April 1, 2009. The Company continues to negotiate with its secured credit facility lenders to obtain permanent waivers or extensions of waivers of the aforementioned events of default and covenant breaches and to obtain amendments of the facility documents in order to position the Company to have sufficient liquidity to fund operations or continue its business. Such amendments may include forbearance of lenders’ rights to make margin calls and elimination or waiver of certain financial covenants. There, however, can be no assurance that the Company will successfully reach agreement with its lenders on such waivers and amendments. If the Company were unable to obtain permanent waivers or extensions of the waivers from its secured credit facility lenders on or before April 1, 2009, an event of default will immediately or with the passage of time occur under the applicable respective facility. An event of default under any of the Company’s facilities, absent a waiver, would trigger cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions in all of the Company’s other facilities and, if such debt were accelerated, would trigger a cross-acceleration provision in one of the Company’s indentures. In such an event, the Company would be required to repay all outstanding indebtedness under its secured credit facilities and the one indenture immediately. The Company would not have sufficient liquid assets available to repay such indebtedness and, unless the Company were able to obtain additional capital resources or waivers, the Company would be unable to continue to fund its operations or continue its business. If the Company is unable to obtain additional sources of financing, the Company may not be able to continue to fund its business. Amendments to the terms of the Company’s credit facilities with Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley in 2008 prohibit the Company from making new borrowings under these credit facilities. In addition, in connection with recent extensions of these facilities, the Company posted additional assets as collateral under certain of these facilities and agreed that all cash flows from collateral under such facilities will be used to make amortization or other payments to such facilities’ lenders until the amounts owed under such facilities have been repaid. The Company’s principal uses of liquidity are for interest and principal payments on debt, dividend payments to holders of shares of Common Stock and its preferred stock, funding of margin calls, operating expenses and investments in real estate securities and loans. In order to continue to meet its liquidity needs, the Company likely will be required to obtain additional sources of financing. Additional sources of financing may be more expensive, contain more onerous terms or simply may not be available. If the Company fails to obtain additional sources of financing, it may not be able to continue to fund its operations or continue its business. Difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the Company’s financial condition, results of operation and business, and market conditions may not improve in the foreseeable future. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. In response to the financial crises, there have been numerous regulatory and governmental actions to address the current recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets. In early 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted to provide further stimulus to institutions that have received or will receive financial assistance under Troubled Assets Relief Program. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. Despite substantial efforts by the U.S. and other governments to restore confidence and reopen sources of credit, it still remains unknown if or when conditions will improve in the foreseeable future or the extent to which such government actions will affect the Company. If the actions assist the Company’s competitors and not itself, its business would be adversely affected. 25 The Company does not currently know the full extent to which this market disruption will affect it or the market in which it operates, and it is unable to predict the length or ultimate severity of the financial crisis. If the challenging conditions continue, the Company may experience further tightening of liquidity, additional impairments, increased margin calls and additional challenges in raising capital and obtaining investment financing. Moreover, if current market conditions continue or deteriorate further, the Company could experience a rapid and significant deterioration of its business and its results of operation and its financial condition could be materially adversely affected. A prolonged economic slowdown also could impair the performance of the Company’s investments and harm its financial condition, decrease its cash flows, increase its funding costs, limit its access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Company. As a result, investors in the Company’s securities could lose some or all of their investment in the Company. Adverse changes in general economic conditions can adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s financial condition, results of operation and business have been adversely affected by the general unprecedented global financial crisis and economic downturn. Disruptions in the housing and credit markets led to a rapid deterioration in the financial markets and a general economic downturn that have resulted in an increased number of delinquent, defaulting and non-performing loans in the Company’s portfolio. The Company’s loan loss reserve for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $165,928. The problems in the financial markets and the economy have also led to a general decline in the value of many of the commercial real estate assets in the Company’s portfolio, even for those assets not affected by increased rates of delinquency or probabilities of default. As a result, the Company has incurred and may continue to incur significant losses. The Company cannot predict how long the economic downturn will last or the effect it will have on its business, results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, adverse changes in national economic conditions or in the economic conditions of the regions in which it conducts substantial business likely would have an adverse effect on real estate values and, accordingly, the Company’s financial performance, the market prices of its securities and its ability to pay dividends. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although the Company maintains reserves for loan losses in amounts that it believe are sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in its portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. The Company’s ability to pay dividends depends on its ability to obtain external financing. If the Company is not able to obtain additional financing, it may not be able to pay dividends. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, the Company, among other requirements, must distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, including taxable income that is accrued by the Company without a corresponding receipt of cash, which thereby limits the amounts of capital it can retain. Pursuant to temporary guidance that was recently issued by the IRS, with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, up to 90% of the Company’s REIT distribution requirement may be satisfied by distributing stock of the Company, with the remainder distributed in cash, provided that certain requirements are satisfied (including, that the Company’s stock continues to be publicly traded on an established securities market in the United States). The Company historically has obtained the cash required for its operations through, among other things, the issuance of equity, senior debt (including convertible debt) and subordinated debt, and by borrowing money through credit facilities, securitization transactions and repurchase agreements. The Company’s continued access to these and other types of external capital depends upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of its growth potential, its current and potential future earnings, cash distributions, and the market price of its Common Stock. Global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have substantially reduced or eliminated the availability of financing for the commercial real estate sector in which the Company operates. Currently, the Company is ineligible to use a "short-form" registration statement and, while it is ineligible, the Company’s ability to raise capital may be more difficult, more expensive and subject to delays. Furthermore, the terms of the Company’s preferred stock prohibit the Company from declaring or paying cash dividends on the Common Stock unless full cumulative dividends have been declared and paid on the preferred stock. The Company cannot assure investors that sufficient funding or capital will be available to it in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Company. If the Company cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of its Common Stock and its ability to pay dividends to its stockholders. 26 Leveraging the Company’s investments may increase the Company’s exposure to loss. The Company leverages its investments and thereby increases the volatility of its operating results and net asset value that may result in operating or capital losses. If borrowing costs increase, or if the cash flow generated by the Company’s assets decreases, the Company’s use of leverage will increase the likelihood that the Company will experience reduced or negative cash flow and reduced liquidity. Many of the Company’s investments are illiquid and therefore are difficult for the Company to value or to sell in a short period of time without experiencing significant losses. Many of the Company’s investments are illiquid. The illiquidity of such investments may result from the decline in the actual or perceived value of properties or assets securing these investments, the absence of a market for these investments, or legal or contractual restrictions on the resale of these investments. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. Many of the Company’s assets, which have little, if any, current market activity, have been valued based primarily on broker quotes. Such third-party pricing for illiquid investments may be more subjective than for more liquid investments. Furthermore, the ongoing dislocation in the trading markets may make it extremely difficult for the Company to sell many of its assets on terms that are acceptable to the Company or at all. If the Company is required to liquidate all or a portion of its illiquid investments in a short period of time, it may realize significant losses or may be unable to sell some or all of such investments at all. As a result, the Company’s ability to vary its portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, and its results of operation, financial condition and business could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s use of repurchase agreements to finance its investments may give its lenders greater rights in the event that either it or a lender files for bankruptcy. The Company’s U.S. dollar facility with Bank of America and multicurrency facility with Deutsche Bank are in the form of repurchase agreements. The Company’s borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, giving its lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to take possession of and liquidate the assets that the Company has pledged under its repurchase agreements without delay in the event that the Company file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code may make it difficult for the Company to recover its pledged assets in the event that a lender party to such agreement files for bankruptcy. Therefore, the Company’s use of repurchase agreements to finance its investments exposes its pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or the Company. 27 Interest rate fluctuations will affect the value of the Company’s commercial real estate assets and may adversely affect the Company’s net income and the price of its Common Stock. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors. Interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect the income and value of the Common Stock in many ways and present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates, variances in the yield curve, changes in prepayment rates and margin calls. The Company seeks to generate income from the spread between the interest income, gains and net operating income (net of credit losses) on its commercial real estate assets and the interest expense from borrowings to finance its investments. The Company funds a substantial portion of its assets with borrowings that have interest rates that reset relatively rapidly, such as monthly or quarterly. The Company anticipates that, in most cases, the income from its floating-rate assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of borrowings, creating a potential mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence the Company’s net income. Increases in these rates tend to decrease the Company’s net income and estimated fair value of the Company’s net assets. Interest rate fluctuations that result in the Company’s interest expense exceeding interest income would result in the Company incurring operating losses. The Company also invests in fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities. In a period of rising interest rates, the Company’s interest payment obligations could increase while the interest the Company earns on its fixed-rate mortgage-backed securities would not change. This would adversely affect the Company’s profitability and liquidity. The relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates often is referred to as the “yield curve.” Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than long-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to long-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), the Company’s borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on the Company’s assets. Because the Company’s borrowings primarily will bear interest at short-term rates and the Company’s assets primarily will bear interest at medium-term to long-term rates, a flattening of the yield curve tends to decrease the Company’s net income and estimated fair value of the Company’s net assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from long-term assets that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields of the new assets and available borrowing rates may decline and also may tend to decrease the net income and estimated fair value of the Company’s net assets. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may adjust relative to long-term interest rates such that the level of short-term rates exceeds the level of long-term rates (a yield curve inversion). In this case, the Company’s borrowing costs may exceed the Company’s interest income and operating losses could be incurred. A portion of the Company’s commercial real estate assets are financed under reverse repurchase agreements and committed borrowing facilities which are subject to mark-to-market risk. Such secured financing arrangements provide for an advance rate based upon a percentage of the estimated fair value of the asset being financed. Market movements that cause asset values to decline could require a margin call or a cash payment to maintain the relationship between asset value and amount borrowed. 28 The Company’s investments may be subject to impairment charges. The Company periodically evaluates its investments for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on a variety of factors depending on the nature of the investment and the manner in which the income related to such investment is calculated for purposes of the Company’s financial statements. If the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, the Company would be required to record an impairment expense and make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the investment, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the applicable period. All of the Company’s securities held-for-trading and certain long-term liabilities are recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by the Manager and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these financial instruments. Most of the Company’s securities held-for-trading are not actively traded. The fair value of these securities and long-term liabilities that are not actively traded may not be readily determinable. The Company values these financial instruments at least quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by the Manager, and the unrealized gains or losses are recorded in earnings. Because such valuations by the Company are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, the Company’s determinations of fair value of its assets and liabilities may differ materially from the values that the Company ultimately realizes upon their disposal. The Company’s assets include subordinated CMBS and similar investments which are subordinate in right of payment to more senior securities. The Company’s assets include a significant amount of subordinated CMBS, which are the most subordinate class of securities in a structure of securities secured by a pool of loans and accordingly are the first to bear the loss upon a restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral and the last to receive payment of interest and principal. Such investments are subject to greater risk of credit loss on principal and non-payment of interest than investments in senior investment grade securities. The Company may not recover the full amount or, in certain cases, any of its initial investment in such subordinated securities. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit, if any, and then by the class of most junior security holders. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund and letter of credit, classes of junior securities in which the Company invests may not be able to recover some or all of its investment in the securities it purchases. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage-backed securities, the securities in which it invests may incur significant losses. The estimated fair values of lower credit quality CMBS and similar investments tend to be less sensitive to interest rate changes than those of more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to changes in economic conditions and underlying borrower developments. The ongoing economic downturn, for example, has caused a decline in the price of lower credit quality CMBS because the ability of borrowers to make principal and interest payments on the mortgages underlying the mortgage-backed securities are deemed more likely to be impaired. In such event, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect the Company against loss of its principal on these securities. In addition, such subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and may not provide the Company as a holder thereof with liquidity of investment. 29 The subordinate interests in whole loans in which the Company invests may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to the Company. A subordinate interest in a whole loan is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a whole loan on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior interest secured by the same whole loan on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for subordinate interest owners after payment to the senior interest owners. Subordinate interests reflect similar credit risks to subordinated CMBS. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, subordinate interests can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of subordinate interests to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. The Company cannot predict the terms of each subordinate investment. Further, subordinate interests typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. Subordinate interests in whole loans also are less liquid than comparably rated CMBS; thus the Company may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with its subordinate position in these investments could subject the Company to increased risk of losses. The commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans the Company originates or acquires and the commercial mortgage loans underlying the CMBS in which the Company invests are subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to the Company. The Company’s commercial mortgage and mezzanine loans are secured by commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by, among other things: tenant mix, success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, property location and condition, competition from comparable types of properties, changes in laws that increase operating expenses or limit rents that may be charged, any need to address environmental contamination at the property, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and/or specific industry segments, declines in regional or local real estate values and declines in regional or local rental or occupancy rates, increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, changes in governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies, including environmental legislation, and acts of God, terrorism, social unrest and civil disturbances. The Company’s assets include mezzanine loans that have greater risks of loss than more senior loans. The Company’s assets include a significant amount of mezzanine loans that involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans. In particular, a foreclosure by the holder of the senior loan could result in the mezzanine loan becoming unsecured. Accordingly, the Company may not recover some or all of its investment in such a mezzanine loan. Additionally, the Company may permit higher loan-to-value ratios on mezzanine loans than it would on conventional mortgage loans when the Company is entitled to share in the appreciation in value of the property securing the loan. 30 Prepayment rates can increase which would adversely affect yields on the Company’s investments. The yield on investments in mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and thus the value of the Common Stock is sensitive to not only changes in prevailing interest rates but also changes in prepayment rates, which results in a divergence between the Company’s borrowing rates and asset yields, consequently reducing future net income derived from the Company’s investments. The Company’s borrowing costs also may exceed its interest income from its investments, and it could incur operating losses. Limited recourse loans limit the Company’s recovery to the value of the mortgaged property. A substantial portion of the commercial mortgage loans the Company acquires may contain limitations on the mortgagee’s recourse against the borrower. In other cases, the mortgagee’s recourse against the borrower is limited by applicable provisions of the laws of the jurisdictions in which the mortgaged properties are located or by the mortgagee’s selection of remedies and the impact of those laws on that selection. In those cases, in the event of a borrower default, recourse may be limited to only the specific mortgaged property and other assets, if any, pledged to secure the relevant commercial mortgage loan. As to those commercial mortgage loans that provide for recourse against the borrower and their assets generally, such recourse may not provide a recovery in respect of a defaulted commercial mortgage loan equal to the liquidation value of the mortgaged property securing that commercial mortgage loan. The volatility of certain mortgaged property values may adversely affect the Company’s commercial mortgage loans. Commercial and multifamily property values and net operating income derived from them are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be adversely affected by plant closings, industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; perceptions by prospective tenants, retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience, services and attractiveness of the property; the willingness and ability of the property’s owner to provide capable management and adequate maintenance; construction quality, age and design; demographic factors; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). The Company’s hedging transactions can limit the Company’s gains and increase the Company’s exposure to losses. The Company uses hedging strategies that involve risk and that may not be successful in insulating the Company from exposure to changing interest and prepayment rates. A liquid secondary market may not exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and the Company may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses or limit its gains. The Company may make non-U.S. dollar denominated investments and investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which subject it to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. The Company purchases mortgage-backed securities denominated in foreign currencies and also acquires interests in loans to non-U.S. companies, which may expose the Company to risks not typically associated with U.S. or U.S. dollar denominated investments. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, multiple and conflicting tax laws, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards, and greater price volatility. Any of these risks could adversely affect the Company’s receipt of interest income from these investments. 31 To the extent that any of the Company’s investments are denominated in foreign currency, these non-U.S. dollar denominated investments will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. Although the Company may employ hedging techniques to minimize foreign currency risk, it can offer no assurance that these strategies will be effective and may incur losses on these investments as a result of currency rate fluctuations. The Company is subject to significant competition. The Company is subject to significant competition in seeking investments. It competes with other companies, including other REITs, insurance companies and other investors, including funds and companies affiliated with the Manager. Some of its competitors have greater resources than it has and it may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Competition for investments may lead to the returns available from such investments decreasing which may further limit its ability to generate its desired returns. The Company cannot assure investors that additional companies will not be formed that compete with it for investments or otherwise pursue investment strategies similar to the Company’s. Maintenance of the Company’s Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on its operations. Failure to maintain its Investment Company Act exemption could adversely affect the Company’s ability to operate. The Company intends to continue to conduct its business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Under the Investment Company Act, a non-exempt entity that is an investment company is required to register with the SEC and is subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with related parties. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are “primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. Under current interpretation by the staff of the SEC, to qualify for this exemption, the Company, among other things, must maintain at least 55% of its assets in Qualifying Interests. A portion of the CMBS acquired by the Company are collateralized by pools of first mortgage loans where the terms of the CMBS owned by the Company provide the right to monitor the performance of the underlying mortgage loans through loan management and servicing rights and the right to control workout/foreclosure rights in the event of default on the underlying mortgage loans. When such rights exist, the Company believes that the related Controlling Class CMBS constitute Qualifying Interests for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Therefore, the Company believes that it should not be required to register as an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act as long as it continues to invest in a sufficient amount of such Controlling Class CMBS and/or in other Qualifying Interests. 32 If the SEC or its staff were to take a different position with respect to whether the Company’s Controlling Class CMBS constitute Qualifying Interests, the Company could be required to modify its business plan so that either (i) it would not be required to register as an investment company or (ii) it would register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Modification of the Company’s business plan so that it would not be required to register as an investment company might entail a disposition of a significant portion of the Company’s Controlling Class CMBS or the acquisition of significant additional assets, such as agency pass-through and other mortgage-backed securities, which are Qualifying Interests. Modification of the Company’s business plan to register as an investment company could result in increased operating expenses and could entail reducing the Company’s indebtedness, which also could require the Company to sell a significant portion of its assets. No assurances can be given that any such dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or de-leveraging, could be accomplished on favorable terms. Consequently, any such modification of the Company’s business plan could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Further, if it were established that the Company were operating as an unregistered investment company, there would be a risk that the Company would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC, that the Company would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period it was established that the Company was an unregistered investment company. Any such result would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s liquidity position could be adversely affected if it were unable to complete additional CDOs on favorable terms or at all. The Company has completed several CDOs through which it raised a significant amount of debt capital. Relevant considerations regarding the Company’s ability to complete additional term debt transactions include: • to the extent that the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular, suffer disruptions, the Company may be unable to complete CDOs; • disruptions in the credit quality and performance of the Company’s commercial real estate securities and loan portfolio, particularly that portion which previously has been securitized and serves as collateral for existing CDOs, could reduce or eliminate investor demand for its CDOs in the future; • any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in the Company’s CDOs would reduce demand for additional term debt by it; and • structural changes imposed by rating agencies or investors may reduce the leverage it is able to obtain, increase the cost and otherwise adversely affect the efficiency of its CDOs. Current global recessionary economic conditions and adverse developments in the credit markets have substantially reduced or eliminated the availability of CDO transactions for the Company. The continued unavailability of CDO transactions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s growth and its Common Stock price. 33 The Company’s repurchase agreements and its CDO financing agreements may limit its ability to make investments. In order to borrow money to make investments under the Company’s repurchase agreements, to the extent that the Company is allowed to make additional borrowings pursuant to the respective terms of such agreements, its lenders have the right to review the potential investment for which the Company is seeking financing. The Company may be unable to obtain the consent of its lenders to make investments that it believes are favorable to the Company. If the Company’s lenders do not consent to the inclusion of the potential asset in a repurchase facility, the Company may be unable to obtain alternate financing for that investment. The Company’s lender’s consent rights with respect to its repurchase agreements may limit its ability to execute its business plan. Each CDO financing in which the Company engages will contain certain eligibility criteria with respect to the collateral that it seeks to acquire and sell to the CDO issuer. If the collateral does not meet the eligibility criteria for eligible collateral as set forth in the transaction documents of such CDO transaction, the Company may not be able to acquire and sell such collateral to the CDO issuer. The inability of the collateral to meet eligibility requirements with respect to the Company’s CDOs may limit the Company’s ability to execute its business plan. The Company may become subject to environmental liabilities. The Company may become subject to material environmental risks when it acquires interests in properties with significant environmental problems. Such environmental risks include the risk that operating costs and values of these assets may be adversely affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation. Such laws often impose liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knows of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous substances could exceed the value of the property. The Company’s income and ability to make distributions to stockholders could be affected adversely by the existence of an environmental liability with respect to the Company’s properties. The price of the Common Stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect holders of the Common Stock. The trading price of the Common Stock may be volatile in response to a number of factors, including actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly financial results or dividends, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, additions or departures of key management personnel, the inability of the Company to obtain or maintain external sources of financing, prevailing interest rates, issuances of the Common Stock, preferred stock or debt securities, and changes in market valuations of other companies in the real estate industry, even if not similar to the Company. In addition, the Company’s financial results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of the Common Stock could decrease significantly. In addition, the U.S. securities markets or sectors of these markets from time to time have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets or sectors. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the price of the Common Stock, regardless of its operating performance. 34 Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to the Common Stock upon its liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, including preferred stock senior to the Common Stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. The Company may from time to time offer additional debt or equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of the Company’s debt securities and shares of its preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of the Company’s available assets prior to the holders of its Common Stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company’s existing stockholders and reduce the market price of its Common Stock. Any preferred stock the Company issues may have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit the Company’s ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of its Common Stock under certain circumstances. Sales of substantial amounts of the Common Stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Common Stock. In addition, secondary sales by the Manager of the Common Stock the Manager owns, or the perception that these sales could occur, even if in insubstantial amounts, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Common Stock. Holders of the Common Stock bear the risk of its future offerings causing the market price of the Common Stock to decline and diluting their stock holdings in the Company. The Company’s staggered board of directors and other provisions of its charter and bylaws may prevent a change in its control, which could adversely affect the price of the Common Stock. The Company’s board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the directors expire in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Directors of each class serve three-year terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The Board of Directors of the Company believe that, among other reasons, a staggered board of directors is in the best interests of its stockholders because such a board helps to promote stability and experience in the Board of Directors and fosters long-term independent thinking that is in the best interests of the Company. However, it is also possible that a staggered board of directors may delay, prevent or reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control. This may occur even though the Company’s stockholders might consider a tender offer or change in control in their best interests. In addition, the Company’s charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might be in the best interest of its stockholders. See “— Risks related to taxation as a REIT — Restrictions on ownership of the Common Stock may inhibit market activity in the Common Stock and restrict its business combination opportunities.” The Company may not be able to maintain continued listing standards for the NYSE. Ordinarily, a listed company would not be in compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards if the average closing price of the company’s securities was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30-trading day period or the company’s market capitalization was below $25 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. Citing extreme volatility and a precipitous decline in the trading prices of many securities in the U.S. and global equity markets, the NYSE has recently temporarily suspended or relaxed these standards. If the Company were unable to comply with the NYSE’s continued listing standards, its Common Stock could be delisted and the Company’s business may be materially adversely affected. 35 Risks related to the Manager Conflicts of interest of the Manager may result in decisions that do not fully reflect stockholders’ best interests. The Company and the Manager have common officers, which may present conflicts of interest in the Company’s dealings with the Manager and its affiliates, including the Company’s purchase of assets originated by such affiliates. The Manager and its employees may engage in other business activities that could reduce the time and effort spent on the management of the Company. The Manager also provides services to REITs not affiliated with the Company. As a result, there may be a conflict of interest between the operations of the Manager and its affiliates in the acquisition and disposition of commercial real estate assets. In addition, the Manager and its affiliates may from time to time purchase commercial real estate assets for their own account and may purchase or sell assets from or to the Company. For example, BlackRock Realty Advisors, Inc., a subsidiary of the Manager, provides real estate equity and other real estate related products and services in a variety of strategies to its institutional investor client base. In doing so, it purchases real estate on behalf of its clients that may underlie the real estate loans and securities the Company acquires, and consequently depending on the factual circumstances involved, there may be conflicts between the Company and those clients. Such conflicts may result in decisions and allocations of commercial real estate assets by the Manager, or decisions by the Manager’s affiliates, that are not in the Company’s best interests. Although the Company has adopted investment guidelines, these guidelines give the Manager significant discretion in investing. The Company’s investment and operating policies and the strategies that the Manager uses to implement those policies may be changed at any time without the consent of stockholders. Conflicts of interest also could arise in transactions where the Company borrows from affiliates of the Manager. In March 2008, the Company entered into a revolving credit loan facility (the “BlackRock Facility”) with a wholly owned subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc., the parent of the Manager. The BlackRock Facility is collateralized by a pledge of equity shares that the Company holds in Carbon Capital II, Inc., a private commercial real estate income fund managed by the Manager. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $30,000 outstanding under the BlackRock Facility. On January 9, 2009, the Company borrowed an additional $3,450 under the BlackRock Facility. The Company is dependent on the Manager, and the termination by the Company of its Management Agreement with the Manager could result in a termination fee and other payments. The Company’s success is dependent on the Manager’s ability to attract and retain quality personnel. The market for portfolio managers, investment analysts, financial advisers and other professionals is extremely competitive. There can be no assurance the Manager will be successful in its efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. The Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager provides for base management fees payable to the Manager without consideration of the performance of the Company’s portfolio and also provides for incentive fees based on certain performance criteria, which could result in the Manager recommending riskier or more speculative investments. Termination of the Management Agreement by the Company would result in the payment of a substantial termination fee and other payments, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Termination of the Management Agreement could also adversely affect the Company if the Company were unable to find a suitable replacement. The Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager, pursuant to its terms, expires on March 31, 2009. If the Company is unable to renew or extend the Management Agreement and is unable to find a suitable replacement to serve as Manager, its business would be materially adversely affected. 36 There is a limitation on the liability of the Manager. Pursuant to the Management Agreement, the Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for under the Management Agreement and is not responsible for any action of the Company’s Board of Directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. The Manager and its directors and officers will not be liable to the Company, any of its subsidiaries, its unaffiliated directors, its stockholders or any subsidiary’s stockholders for acts performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, except by reason of acts constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement. The Company has agreed to indemnify the Manager and its directors and officers with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of the Manager not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement. The Company may change its investment and operational policies without stockholder consent. The Company may change its investment and operational policies, including the Company’s policies with respect to investments, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, at any time without the consent of the Company’s stockholders, which could result in the Company making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of investments described in this filing. A change in the Company investment strategy may increase the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to make distributions. Risks related to taxation as a REIT The Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to its stockholders. The Company operates in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Continued qualification as a REIT will depend on the Company’s ability to satisfy certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In particular, the Company’s ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon its analysis of the fair market values of its assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which it will not obtain independent appraisals. The Company’s compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon its ability to successfully manage the composition of its income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes, and the tax treatment of participation interests that the Company holds in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that the Company’s interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If the Company were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by the Company in computing its taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, its stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Code provisions, the Company also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which it ceased to qualify as a REIT. 37 If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, the Company might need to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment or distribution to the Company’s stockholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex tax rules and various factual determinations, some of which are based upon matters that are not entirely within the Company’s control. There are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations of these provisions. Although the Company believes that it operates in a manner consistent with the REIT qualification rules, the Company may not be able to remain so qualified. In addition, the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the United States Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws could adversely affect the Company or its stockholders. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute its business plan. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, the Company, among other requirements, generally must distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of its net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. If the Company qualifies as a REIT, dividends that it pays are generally tax deductible, with the distributed earnings therefore not subject to federal income tax at the REIT level. The Company intends to make distributions to its stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code. However, certain of the Company’s assets may generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of its net taxable income could cause the Company to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. Pursuant to temporary guidance that was recently issued by the IRS, with respect to taxable years ending on or before December 31, 2009, up to 90% of the Company’s REIT distribution requirement may be satisfied by distributing stock of the Company, with the remainder distributed in cash, provided that certain requirements are satisfied (including, that the Company’s stock continues to be publicly traded on an established securities market in the United States). Restrictions on ownership of the Common Stock may inhibit market activity in the Company’s stock and restrict its business combination opportunities. In order for the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code) at any time during the last half of each taxable year, and there must be at least 100 direct owners of the Company’s stock. To facilitate compliance with these tax law requirements for qualification as a REIT, the Company’s charter generally prohibits any person from acquiring or holding, directly or indirectly, shares of stock in excess of 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of any class of its stock. The Company’s charter further prohibits (i) any person from beneficially or constructively owning shares of stock that would result in the Company being “closely held” under Section 856(h) of the Code or would otherwise cause the Company to fail to qualify as a REIT, and (ii) any person from transferring shares of stock if such transfer would result in the Company’s stock being beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons. If any transfer of shares of stock occurs which, if effective, would result in a violation of one or more of these ownership limitations, then that number of shares of stock, the beneficial or constructive ownership of which otherwise would cause such person to violate such limitations (rounded up to a whole number of shares) will be automatically transferred to a trustee of a trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more charitable beneficiaries, and the intended transferee may not acquire any rights in such shares; provided, however, that if any transfer occurs which, if effective, would result in shares of capital stock being owned by fewer than 100 persons, then the transfer will be null and void and the intended transferee will acquire no rights to the stock. Subject to certain limitations, the Company’s Board of Directors may waive the limitations for certain investors. 38 The provisions of the Company’s charter or relevant Maryland law may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for the holders of its Common Stock to receive a premium for their Common Stock that might otherwise exist in the absence of such provisions. Such provisions also may make the Company an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain ownership of more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of its Common Stock. Material provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (“MGCL”) relating to “business combinations” and a “control share acquisition” and of the Company’s charter and bylaws may also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a takeover attempt or other change in control of the Company that would be beneficial to stockholders and might otherwise result in a premium over then prevailing market prices. Although the Company’s bylaws contain a provision exempting the acquisition of i Common Stock by any person from the control share acquisition statute, there can be no assurance that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. These ownership limits could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in its control that might involve a premium price for its Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interest of its stockholders. Even if the Company remains qualified as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow. Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, the Company (or its subsidiaries) may be subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state, local, or foreign income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, the Company holds some of its assets through taxable REIT subsidiaries. Such subsidiaries are potentially subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Complying with REIT requirements may cause the Company to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. The Company also may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when it does not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company’s ability to make certain attractive investments. 39 The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that the Company or its stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which it effects future securitizations. Certain of the Company’s securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as the Company owns the entire equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, it generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from the Company that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that the Company’s stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, it may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of its income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, the Company may reduce the amount of its distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS While the Company does not have any unresolved staff comments pursuant to Item 1B hereof, the Company is still in discussions with the SEC regarding written comments initially received on December 12, 2008. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation – SEC Comment Letter” for additional discussion of these comments. ITEM 