Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our Success Depends on Our Business Strategies Our business strategies are to achieve sustainable, profitable growth by creating innovative products, elevating consumer perception of our brands, increasing consumer and retailer awareness and demand for our products, creating compelling retail environments, and building stronger emotional brand connections with consumers over time. We intend to pursue these strategies across extended product categories and in a growing number of geographic markets. We face many challenges in implementing our business strategies. For example, expansion of our direct-to-consumer business has required significant investments, yet, in the current macro-economic environment of economic uncertainty and weak consumer demand, this expansion may not have the desired effect of increasing demand for our products. Our ability to expand our global footwear business and European business may also be significantly limited as a result of global economic conditions and a general weakness in global consumer demand. The success of our retail and e-commerce initiatives depends on our ability to adapt our internal processes to facilitate direct-to-consumer sales, to effectively manage retail store and e-commerce inventory, to hire, retain and train personnel capable of managing retail and e-commerce operations, to identify and negotiate favorable terms for retail locations, to effectively manage construction, opening, and ongoing operations of stores globally and to manage the operation of our e-commerce platform effectively. The failure to implement our business strategies successfully could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Our business strategies and related increased expenditures could also cause our operating margin to decline if we are unable to offset our increased spending with increased sales or gross margins, or comparable reductions in other operating costs. If our sales decline or fail to grow as planned and we fail to sufficiently reduce our operating expenses, our profitability will decline. This could result in a decision to delay, reduce, modify or terminate our strategic business initiatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We continue to expand into international markets where we have little sales or distribution experience and where our brands are not yet widely known. Expanding into new markets involves, among other things, gaining consumer acceptance and establishing and protecting intellectual property rights. Attracting superior retail channel partners and improving the sales productivity of our customers each depend on various factors, including the strength of our brand names, our ability to design and manufacture innovative products, competitive conditions, the availability of desirable locations and the negotiation of terms with customers. Future terms with customers may be less favorable to us than those under which we now operate. Large wholesale customers in particular increasingly seek to transfer various costs of business to their vendors, such as the cost of lost profits from promotional activity and product price markdowns, which could cause our gross margins to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions with comparable reductions in operating costs. To implement our business strategy, we must continue to modify various aspects of our business, to maintain and enhance our information systems and operations to respond to increased demand and to attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. Changes in our business may place an increasing strain on management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we may have operating difficulties as a result. For example, our strategic initiatives, including the implementation of our retail store and e-commerce strategies, require significant management attention and corporate resources. These business initiatives involve many risks and uncertainties that, if not managed effectively, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by a Prolonged Economic Downturn or Economic Uncertainty We are a consumer products company and are highly dependent on consumer discretionary spending patterns and the purchasing patterns of our wholesale customers as they attempt to match their seasonal purchase volumes to volatile consumer demand. In addition, as we have expanded our base of retail stores, we have increased our direct exposure to the risks associated with volatile and unpredictable consumer discretionary spending patterns. As global economic conditions continue to be volatile or economic uncertainty remains, trends in consumer discretionary spending also become unpredictable and subject to reductions due to uncertainties about the future and credit constraints. Consumer demand for our products may not reach our sales targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets, particularly markets in North America and our EMEA region. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by Volatility in Global Production Costs Our product costs are subject to substantial fluctuation based on changes in labor markets in certain Asian countries, particularly China and Vietnam, interest rates, currency exchange rates, global oil markets, production capacity at independent factories, and general economic conditions. For example, volatility in global oil markets has resulted in fluctuating fuel and product prices and caused costs to produce our products through independent contractors to change, sometimes significantly. Because we price our products in advance and the external cost changes may be difficult to predict, we may not be able to adjust our pricing structure in a timely manner in order to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, since the majority of our products are manufactured outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographical distances and volatile fuel costs can result in rapidly changing transportation costs. 10 Table of Contents We May be Adversely Affected by the Financial Health of our Customers Sluggish economies and consumer uncertainty regarding future economic prospects in our key markets are having an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers, some of whom have filed or may file for protection under bankruptcy laws, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We extend credit to our customers based on an assessment of the customer’s financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers discounts for placing advance orders and extended payment terms for taking delivery before the peak shipping season. These extended payment terms increase our exposure to the risk of uncollectible receivables. In addition, we face increased risk of order reduction or cancellation or reduced availability of credit insurance coverage when dealing with financially ailing retailers or retailers struggling with economic uncertainty. Some of our significant wholesale customers have liquidated or reorganized, while others have had financial difficulties in the past and have recently experienced tightened credit markets and declining sales and profitability on a comparable store basis, which in turn has an adverse effect on our business. We may reduce our level of business with customers experiencing financial difficulties and may not be able to replace that business with other customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by Global Credit Market Conditions Economic downturns and economic uncertainty generally affect global credit markets. Our vendors, customers and other participants in our supply chain may require access to credit markets in order to do business. Credit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers find it more difficult to obtain necessary financing, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. Credit conditions may impair our vendors’ ability to finance the purchase of raw materials or general working capital needs to support our production requirements, resulting in a delay or non-receipt of inventory shipments during key seasons. Historically we have limited our reliance on long-term debt to finance our working capital, capital expenditures and investing activity requirements. We expect to fund our future capital expenditures with existing cash, expected operating cash flows and credit facilities, but if the need arises to finance additional expenditures, we may need to seek additional funding. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on many factors, including prevailing market conditions, our financial condition, and our ability to negotiate favorable terms and conditions. Financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us, if at all. Our Results of Operations Could be Materially Harmed If We Are Unable to Accurately Forecast Demand for Our Products Many factors may significantly affect demand for our products, including, among other things, economic conditions, fashion trends, consumer preferences and weather, making it difficult to accurately forecast demand for our products and our future results of operations. To minimize our purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery, we place some orders for our products with independent factories prior to receiving all of our customers’ orders and we maintain an inventory of various products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. In addition, customers are generally allowed to cancel orders prior to shipment with sufficient notice. During periods of weak economic conditions we may experience a significant increase in the volume of order cancellations by our customers, including cancellations resulting from the bankruptcy, liquidation or contraction of certain customers’ operations. Particularly in light of current economic conditions, we may not be able to sell all of the products we have ordered from independent factories or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices through discount retail channels, which could have a material adverse effect on our brand image, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For certain demand planning functions, we rely on manual processes and judgment that are difficult to control and are subject to human error. 11 Table of Contents Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our independent factories are unable to supply products when we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might prevent us from fulfilling customer orders, delay shipments to customers, negatively affect customer relationships, and diminish our ability to build brand loyalty. We May be Adversely Affected by Weather Conditions Our business is adversely affected by unseasonable weather conditions. A significant portion of the sales of our sportswear, outerwear, footwear, accessories and equipment is dependent in part on the weather and may decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. Periods of unseasonably warm weather in the fall or winter or unseasonably cold or wet weather in the spring and summer may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, in spring 2008, unseasonably cool weather in the United States caused customers to delay, and in some cases reduce or cancel, orders for our sportswear and footwear, which had an adverse effect on our net sales and profitability. Inventory accumulation by our wholesale customers resulting from unseasonable weather in one season may negatively affect orders in future seasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods. Our International Operations Involve Many Risks We are subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad. These risks include the effects of foreign laws and regulations, changes in consumer preferences, foreign currency fluctuations, political unrest, terrorist acts, military operations, disruptions or delays in shipments, disease outbreaks and changes in economic conditions in countries in which we manufacture or sell products. These factors, among others, may affect our ability to sell products in international markets, our ability to manufacture products or procure materials, and our cost of doing business. If any of these or other factors make the conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical, our business may be materially and adversely affected. As we expand our operations in geographic scope and product categories, we anticipate intellectual property disputes will increase as well, making it more expensive and challenging to establish and protect our intellectual property rights and to defend against claims of infringement by others. As a global company, we determine our income tax liability in various competing tax jurisdictions based on a careful analysis and interpretation of local tax laws and regulations. This analysis requires a significant amount of judgment and estimation and is often based on various assumptions about the future actions of the local tax authorities. These determinations are the subject of periodic domestic and foreign tax audits. Although we accrue for uncertain tax positions, our accrual may be insufficient to satisfy unfavorable findings, which by their nature cannot be predicted with certainty. Unfavorable audit findings and tax rulings may result in payment of taxes, fines and penalties for prior periods and higher tax rates in future periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes in tax law or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of current and future tax audits could significantly affect the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States or into our other sales markets. Any country in which our products are produced or sold may eliminate, adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs, anti-dumping penalties or other charges or restrictions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We Operate in Very Competitive Markets The markets for sportswear, outerwear, footwear, accessories and equipment are highly competitive, as are the markets for our licensed products. In each of our geographic markets, we face significant competition from global and regional branded apparel, footwear, accessories and equipment companies. 12 Table of Contents Retailers who are our customers often pose our most significant competitive threat by marketing apparel, footwear and equipment under their own private labels. For example, in the United States, several of our largest customers have developed significant private label brands during the past decade that compete directly with our products. These retailers have assumed an increasing degree of inventory risk in their private label products and, as a result, may first cancel advance orders with us in order to manage their own inventory levels downward during weak economic cycles. We also compete with other companies for the production capacity of independent factories that produce our products and for import quota capacity. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us, have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we have, and have achieved greater brand strength than we have. Increased competition may result in reduced access to production capacity, reductions in display areas in retail locations, reductions in sales, or reductions in our profit margins, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We May be Adversely Affected by Retailer Consolidation When our wholesale customers combine their operations through mergers, acquisitions, or other transactions, their consolidated order volume may decrease while their bargaining power and the competitive threat they pose by marketing products under their own private labels may increase. Some of our significant customers have consolidated their operations in the past, which in turn has had a negative effect on our business. As many retailers face increased financial pressure from significant decreases in consumer spending and continued economic uncertainty, we expect retailer consolidation to continue, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We Face Risks Associated with Consumer Preferences and Fashion Trends Changes in consumer preferences or consumer interest in outdoor activities may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in fashion trends may have a greater impact than in the past as we expand our offerings to include more product categories in more geographic areas. We also face risks because our business requires us and our customers to anticipate consumer preferences. Our decisions about product designs often are made far in advance of consumer acceptance. Although we try to manage our inventory risk through early order commitments by retailers, we must generally place a significant portion of our seasonal production orders with our independent factories before we have received all of a season’s orders, and orders may be cancelled by customers before shipment. If we or our customers fail to anticipate and respond to consumer preferences, we may have lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Success Depends on Our Use and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Our registered and common law trademarks have significant value and are important to our ability to create and sustain demand for our products. We also place significant value on our trade dress, the overall appearance and image of our products. From time to time, we discover products that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe on our proprietary rights. Counterfeiting activities typically increase as brand recognition increases, especially in markets outside the United States. Increased instances of counterfeit manufacture and sales may adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in a shift of consumer preference away from our products. The actions we take to establish and protect trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violations of proprietary rights. In markets outside of the United States, it may be more difficult for us to establish our proprietary rights and to successfully challenge use of those rights by other parties. We also license our proprietary rights to third parties. Failure to choose appropriate licensees and licensed product 13 Table of Contents categories may dilute or harm our brand image. Actions or decisions in the management of our intellectual property portfolio may affect the strength of the brand, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we have not been materially inhibited from selling products in connection with patent, trademark and trade dress disputes, as we focus on innovation in our product lines, extend our brand into new product categories and expand the geographic scope of our marketing, we may become subject to litigation based on allegations of the infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties including third party trademark, copyright and patent rights. An increasing number of our products include technologies and/or designs for which we have obtained or applied for patent protection. Failure to successfully obtain and maintain patents on these innovations could negatively affect our ability to market and sell our products. Future litigation also may be necessary to defend against such claims or to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation may be costly and may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation may result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. This may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Success Depends on Our Distribution Facilities Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities, the development or expansion of additional distribution capabilities and the timely performance of services by third parties, including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities. In the United States, we rely primarily on our distribution centers in Portland, Oregon and Robards, Kentucky; in Canada, we rely primarily on our distribution facilities in Strathroy, Ontario; and in Europe, we rely primarily on our distribution center in Cambrai, France. Our distribution facilities in the United States and France are highly automated, which means that their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions, and other system failures. Risks associated with upgrading or expanding these facilities may significantly disrupt or increase the cost of our operations. For example, in addition to supporting our traditional wholesale business, our existing distribution facilities have been modified to enable them to also support our new e-commerce sales. Failure to successfully maintain and update these modifications could disrupt our wholesale and e-commerce shipments and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our current distribution facilities are designed to handle significantly greater volumes of product shipments than our business is currently generating, especially our European distribution center in Cambrai, France. The fixed costs associated with owning, operating and maintaining these large, highly-automated distribution centers during a period of economic weakness and declining sales could result in lower operating efficiencies and financial deleverage. This fixed cost structure may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability if sales volumes continue to decline for an extended period of time and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our distribution facilities may also be interrupted by disasters, such as earthquakes (which are known to occur in the Northwestern United States) or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that may be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. We Rely on Our Highly-customized Information Management Systems Our business is increasingly reliant on information technology. Information systems are used across our supply chain and retail operations, from design to distribution and sales, and are used as a method of 14 Table of Contents communication between employees, with our subsidiaries and liaison offices overseas, as well as with our customers and retail stores. We also rely on our information systems to allocate resources, develop demand plans and forecast operating results. System failures, breaches of confidential information, or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including computer viruses, programming errors, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or our failure to properly maintain systems redundancy, or to protect, repair, maintain, or upgrade our systems. Any breach or interruption of critical business information systems could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our primary enterprise resource planning system is highly customized to our business. As a result, the availability of internal and external resources with the expertise to maintain our enterprise resource planning system is limited. We may experience difficulties if we transition to new or upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with new systems. In addition, transitioning to new or upgraded systems could require significant capital investments. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we implement our direct-to-consumer initiatives and plan for future growth, our customized enterprise resource planning system may inhibit our ability to operate efficiently, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, our enterprise resource planning system may not be compatible with other systems to support desired functionality for our operations. We May be Adversely Affected by Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Although the majority of our product purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars, the cost of these products may be affected by the relative changes in the value of the local currency of the manufacturer. Price increases caused by currency exchange rate fluctuations may make our products less competitive or have an adverse effect on our margins. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because the primary currency of many of our subsidiaries is not the U.S. dollar, we are exposed to potentially material gains or losses from the remeasurement of monetary transactions into the U.S. dollar. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also disrupt the business of the independent factories that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. As a result, currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Investments May be Adversely Affected by an Economic Downturn or Economic Uncertainty Our investment portfolio is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Changes in market conditions, such as those that accompany an economic downturn or economic uncertainty, may negatively affect the value and liquidity of our investment portfolio, perhaps significantly. Our ability to find diversified investments that are both safe and liquid and that provide a reasonable return may be impaired, resulting in lower interest income, less diversification, longer investment maturities and/or higher other-than-temporary impairments. We May be Adversely Affected by Labor Disruptions Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. Labor disputes at independent factories where our goods are produced, shipping ports, transportation carriers, retail stores or distribution centers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak manufacturing and importing seasons, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. 15 Table of Contents We Depend on Independent Factories Our products are produced by independent factories worldwide. We do not operate or own any production facilities. Although we enter into purchase order commitments with these independent factories each season, we generally do not maintain long-term manufacturing commitments with them. Because of these factors, independent factories may fail to perform as expected or our competitors may obtain production or quota capacities that effectively limit or eliminate the availability of these resources to us. If an independent manufacturer fails to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet our standards or if we are unable to obtain necessary production or quota capacities, we may miss delivery deadlines or incur additional costs, which may result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries, a reduction in purchase prices, or increased costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Reliance on independent factories also creates quality control risks. A failure in our quality control program may result in diminished product quality, which may result in increased order cancellations and returns, decreased consumer demand for our products, or product recalls, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Finally, if an independent manufacturer violates labor or other laws, or engages in practices that are not generally accepted as ethical in our key markets, we may be subject to significant negative publicity that could result in long-term damage to our brand image, consumer demand for our products may decrease, and under some circumstances we may be subject to liability for the independent manufacturer’s practices, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We Depend on Key Suppliers Some of the materials that we use may be available from only one source or a very limited number of sources. For example, some specialty fabrics are manufactured to our specification by one source or a few sources, and zippers are supplied by one manufacturer. From time to time, we have difficulty satisfying our raw material and finished goods requirements. Although we believe that we can identify and qualify additional independent factories to produce these materials as necessary, there are no guarantees that additional independent factories will be available. In addition, depending on the timing, any changes may result in increased costs or production delays, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We Depend on Key Personnel Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel and our ability to attract and retain key managers, designers, sales people and others. We face intense competition for these individuals worldwide, and there is a significant concentration of well-funded apparel and footwear competitors in and around Portland, Oregon. We may not be able to attract qualified new employees or retain existing employees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Business Is Affected by Seasonality Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to the outdoor apparel industry. Our products are marketed on a seasonal basis and our product mix is weighted substantially toward the fall season, resulting in sales and profits being highest in the third calendar quarter. We expect the expansion of our retail operations to have a modest effect on the seasonality of our business, increasing the proportion of sales and profits that we generate in the fourth calendar quarter. This seasonality, along with other factors that are beyond our control and that are discussed elsewhere in this section, may adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. 16 Table of Contents Our Products Are Subject to Increasing Product Regulations and We Face Risks of Product Liability and Warranty Claims Our products are subject to increasingly stringent and complex domestic and foreign product labeling and performance and safety standards, laws and other regulations. These requirements could result in greater expense associated with compliance efforts, and failure to comply with these regulations could result in a delay, non-delivery or mandated recall or destruction of inventory shipments during key seasons or in other financial penalties. Significant or continuing noncompliance with these standards and laws could harm our reputation and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our products are used in outdoor activities, sometimes in severe conditions. Product recalls or product liability claims in the future, resulting from the alleged failure of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Some of our products carry warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We maintain a warranty reserve for future warranty claims, but the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve, which may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Common Stock Price May Be Volatile The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially since our initial public offering. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is likely to continue to have significant price and volume fluctuations that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Factors such as general market conditions, fluctuations in financial results, variances from financial market expectations, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, or announcements by us or our competitors may also cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Insiders Control a Majority of Our Common Stock and May Sell Shares Three related shareholders, Timothy Boyle, Gertrude Boyle and Sarah Bany, beneficially own a majority of our common stock. As a result, if acting together, they can effectively control matters requiring shareholder approval without the cooperation of other shareholders. Shares held by these three insiders are available for resale, subject to the requirements of, and the rules under, the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The sale or the prospect of the sale of a substantial number of these shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 