Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Company Our operating results may fluctuate and could cause the market price of our common stock to fall rapidly and without notice. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, particularly because of the evolving market in which we operate and our term license model. Our results of operations in any given quarter will be based on a number of factors, including: •the timing and mix of license and services revenues, and the amount and type of service required in delivering certain projects; •changes in the timing of our operating expenses; •the impact of the current ongoing global financial crisis on our business and our customers' businesses; •the integration success of our recent acquisitions, and the timing, size and integration success of potential future acquisitions; •changes in our customers' purchasing patterns; •the financial condition of our current and potential customers; •our ability to introduce new products and services and enhancements to our existing products and services on a timely basis; •the timing of our product sales and the length of our sales and implementation cycles; •new competitors and introduction of enhanced products from new or existing competitors; •our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel; •changes in the regulatory environment related to the clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring market; •the extent to which our software products, services and hosted solutions achieve or maintain market acceptance; and •unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation costs. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenues. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls or operating expenses may decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Results of operations in any quarterly period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. We may lose or delay revenues related to our hosted solutions and consulting services if our customers terminate or delay their contracted projects with us. Certain of our hosted and other service and consulting contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers at any time with limited notice. Entities engaged in clinical trials may terminate or delay a clinical trial for various reasons including the failure of the tested product to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, decisions to de-emphasize a particular product or forego a particular clinical trial, decisions to downsize clinical development programs, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment and production problems resulting in shortages of required clinical supplies. In the case of our hosted solutions, any termination or delay in the clinical trials would likely result in a consequential delay or termination in those customers' service contracts. We have experienced terminations and delays of our customer service contracts in the past and expect to experience additional terminations and delays in the future. Because we do not recognize any portion of a hosted service contract's revenues until the implementation cycle is complete, the termination or delay of our customers' clinical trials could result in decreased or delayed revenues under these contracts which could materially harm our business. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause disruption of our business and loss of value or dilution to our stockholders. From time to time, we evaluate potential investments in, and acquisitions of, complementary technologies, services and businesses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. For example, we acquired Lincoln Technologies, Inc., or Lincoln, in 2005, Green Mountain Logic, Inc., or Green Mountain, in 2007, Clarix LLC, or Clarix, in 2008, and each of Waban Software, Inc., or Waban, Maaguzi LLC, or Maaguzi, and the Interactive Voice and Web Response Service business of Covance, Inc. in 2009. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; •managing the risks and challenges of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we eventually realize or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company's business; •the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company's products. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we could discover deficiencies withheld from us in an acquisition due to fraud or otherwise not uncovered in our due diligence prior to the acquisition. These deficiencies could include problems in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality and regulatory compliance, any of which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, if we finance any future acquisitions by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. For the year ended 2009, approximately 39% of our revenues were derived from international operations. For the same period, approximately 25% of our revenues were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to many risks and uncertainties, including: •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; •the impact of the current global financial crisis on our business and our customers' businesses; •potential fluctuations in foreign economies; •difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; •difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and other relevant legal issues; •tariff and international trade barriers; •fewer legal protections for intellectual property and contract rights abroad; •different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; •difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions; •government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and •political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, with regard to our international operations, we frequently enter into transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we incur operating expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This creates a foreign currency exchange risk for us that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Although from time to time, we enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the foreign currency exposure of non-U.S. dollar denominated third-party and intercompany receivables and cash balances, we cannot assure you that these contracts will be successful in mitigating our foreign currency exposure risk. 20 Table of Contents Some of our investments are subject to significant market risk. At December 31, 2009, we held $135.5 million in cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments. Although we do not issue or invest in financial instruments or their derivatives for trading or speculative purposes, these assets are exposed to a variety of market risks, including changes in interest rates and the market value of our investments. In addition, included within our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2009 were $24.1 million and $23.8 million, respectively, of auction rate securities, or ARS, at par value. The types of ARS that we own are backed by student loans, 95% of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, and all had credit ratings of AAA (or equivalent) from a recognized rating agency. The ARS are classified as long-term investments and short-term investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheet included in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively, and are recorded at fair market value. Historically, the carrying value of ARS approximated fair market value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. The auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities as investors could readily sell their investments at auction. Auctions are held every 28 days. Following successful auctions in January 2008, substantially all of our ARS have subsequently experienced failed auctions, as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders due to the liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets. The result of a failed auction is that these ARS continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms until the next successful auction; however, liquidity will be limited until there is a successful auction or until such time as other markets for these ARS investments develop, unless an alternative liquidation opportunity is presented to the ARS holder. We performed a fair value calculation of our ARS as of December 31, 2008 and concluded that the fair value was $18.0 million, a decline of $6.0 million from par value. As of December 31, 2009, $0.3 million of the ARS were called by the respective issuers at par value and we concluded that the fair value of the remaining ARS was $19.4 million. As a result of the recent instability in the market for auction rate securities, there may be a future decline in the value of our auction rate securities. A further decline in the value of these securities that is not temporary could materially adversely affect our liquidity and income. In November 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS AG, or UBS, with respect to all of our ARS held at the time of the agreement. Under our agreement with UBS, we received certain rights which entitle us to sell our ARS to UBS affiliates during the period from June 30, 2010 to July 20, 2012, for a price equal to par value. In accepting the offer, we granted UBS the authority to sell or auction the ARS at par at any time up until the expiration date of the offer and released UBS from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ARS. UBS's obligations under the offer are not secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the offer. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the offer. If UBS has insufficient funding to buy back the ARS and the auction process continues to fail, then we may incur further losses on the carrying value of the ARS. Ongoing uncertainty in the financial markets in the United States and elsewhere in the world may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing ongoing disruption and uncertainty in the last two years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance operations, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies. These economic developments affect businesses in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, and could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services. 21 Table of Contents Our customers' ability to pay for our software solutions may also be impaired, which may lead to an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. Our global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. Should these economic conditions result in our not meeting our revenue growth objectives, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The loss of one or more major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 28% of our revenues during 2009. The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationships, and our customers may delay performance under or fail to renew their agreements with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Any reduction in the amount of revenue that we derive from these customers, without an offsetting increase in new sales to other customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on the collectability of our accounts receivables, our liquidity and our future operating results. Our business could be seriously harmed by our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for specific components of our software products and hosted solutions. We may increase our dependence on certain suppliers as we continue to develop and enhance our software and service solutions. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required components, services capacity, price increases, delayed supplier performance and poor component and services quality. For instance, we rely on Oracle Corporation to supply the database component of most of our software solutions and on SunGard Data Systems Inc. to provide server facilities for some of our hosting services. Oracle Corporation also offers a software package that is competitive with our products and services. If we are unable to obtain components for our software solutions from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we need, on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our software products, services and hosted solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Moreover, delays or interruptions in our service, including without limitation delays or interruptions resulting from a change in suppliers, may reduce our revenues, cause customers to terminate their contracts and adversely affect our customer renewals. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or we were otherwise required to find alternative suppliers to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, sales of our products and services would be delayed. To qualify a new supplier and familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements is a costly and time-consuming process. We cannot assure you that we would be able to establish alternative relationships on acceptable terms. 22 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair the delivery of our hosted solutions and other services and harm our business. We host some of our software solutions and information technology systems at third-party facilities. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster, technical or service lapses, other unanticipated problems at the facilities of our third-party providers or a combination of one or more of the foregoing factors could result in unanticipated interruptions in our customers' access to our hosted solutions or impair our access to our information technology systems. Our hosted services may also be subject to sabotage, intentional acts of malfeasance and similar misconduct due to the nature of the Internet. In the past, Internet users have occasionally experienced difficulties with Internet and online services due to system or security failures. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our customers or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Further, certain of our hosted solutions are subject to service level agreements that guarantee up to 99% server availability. In the event that we fail to meet those levels, whether resulting from an interruption in service caused by our technology or that of a third-party provider, we could be subject to customer credits or termination of these customer contracts. We may be required to spend substantial time and expense before we recognize a significant portion of the revenues, if any, attributable to our customer contracts. The sales cycle for some of our software solutions frequently takes in excess of nine months from initial customer contact to contract execution. During this time, we may expend substantial time, effort and financial resources without realizing any revenues with respect to the potential sale. In addition, while we generally begin recognizing revenues upon the execution of our agreements for software term licenses and related services, it may be difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as license revenues and, when applicable, related services revenues, from new customers are recognized over the applicable license term, typically one to five years. As a result, we may not recognize significant revenues, if any, from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales, implementation, and service delivery processes. Even if we do realize revenues from a contract, our term license model may keep us from recognizing a significant portion of these revenues (including revenues for related services) during the same period in which sales, implementation, and service delivery expenses were incurred. Timing differences of this nature could cause our service gross margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, if we enter into an agreement with a customer that specifies or otherwise requires that we deliver a specific product or version that is not yet generally available, our term license pricing model may prevent us from recognizing a significant portion of the license and related service revenues under that contract until delivery of such specified product or version occurs. Accordingly, delays in product or version release dates, whether caused by factors such as unforeseen technology issues or otherwise, could further negatively impact the timing of our revenue under such contracts. Similarly, a decline in new or renewed software term licenses in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and may negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. This could also cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Failure of our technology and products could harm our business and operating results. The technology underlying our software products and hosted solutions processes vast amounts of clinical and safety data. Customers relying on our products to collect, manage and report clinical and safety information, randomize patients, and manage inventory and clinical trial operations may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers of software products in general. In the past, failures of our technology and human error have negatively impacted the data capture, management or reporting capabilities of our products, and new errors may be detected in the future. 23 Table of Contents Any delay or failure of our technology may result in the disruption of our customers' clinical trial or safety evaluation and monitoring processes and could harm our business and operating results. Product or service errors, as well as any difficulties in introducing, installing and maintaining new products and versions or difficulties training customers and their staffs on the utilization of new products and versions, could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products and services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. In addition, security breaches, whether intentional or accidental, could expose us to a risk of loss of data, litigation and possible liability. If we are unable to retain our personnel and hire additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and contract workers, particularly our management team, sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. Each of our executive officers and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives and could materially harm our business. In addition, because of the technical nature of our software products, services and hosted solutions and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain qualified direct sales, professional services and product development personnel, as well as our contract workers, could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales, successfully develop new software products, services and hosted solutions or software enhancements or deliver services and solutions as requested by our customers. Our software products and hosted solutions are at varying stages of market acceptance and the failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain wide acceptance would harm our operating results. We began offering our InForm electronic data capture software solution for clinical trials in December 1998. Although the Clintrial and Empirica Trace products were introduced over 10 years ago, we did not begin offering these products until after our acquisition of Clinsoft Corporation, or Clinsoft, in 2001. We began offering our, Empirica Signal, Empirica Study and WebSDM products after our August 2005 acquisition of Lincoln, our LabPas product after our October 2007 acquisition of Green Mountain, our IRT solution after our September 2008 acquisition of Clarix, our Clinical Development Center solution after our April 2009 acquisition of Waban, and our OutcomeLogix solution after our July 2009 acquisition of Maaguzi. Continued use of our InForm, Clintrial, WebSDM an Empirica software products and, and broad and timely acceptance of our LabPas, Phase Forward IRT, Clinical Development Center and OutcomeLogix products, as well as integrated solutions combining one or more of our software products, is critical to our future success and is subject to a number of significant risks, some of which are outside our control. These risks include: •our customers' and prospective customers' desire for and acceptance of our electronic data capture, clinical data management, drug safety and interactive response technology solutions; •our ability to meet product development and release schedules; •our software products and hosted solutions' ability to support large numbers of users and manage vast amounts of data; •our ability to significantly expand our internal resources and increase our capital and operating expenses to support the anticipated growth and continued integration of our software products, services and hosted solutions; and 24 Table of Contents •our customers' ability to use our software products and hosted solutions, train their employees and successfully deploy our technology in their clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. Our failure to address, mitigate or manage these risks would seriously harm our business, particularly if the failure of any or all of our software products or hosted solutions to achieve market acceptance negatively affects our sales of our other products and services. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could harm our business. We have been experiencing an ongoing period of rapid growth as a result of personnel hiring and acquisitions that places a significant strain on our operational and financial resources and our personnel. For example, in the year ended 2009 alone, the number of our employees increased from 718 to 939. We have also experienced rapid growth in the number of clinical trials we host, the number of customer relationships we manage and the number of end-users of our products. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. We will also be required to attract, integrate, train and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers and other management personnel. Our failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or to develop or license substitute technology. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. For instance, in February 2006, we settled a lawsuit against us and one of our customers which alleged that we infringed a patent claimed to be owned by the plaintiffs. We incurred substantial professional fees in connection with this claim and agreed to make a one-time payment of $8.5 million in order to settle this litigation. In addition, the vendors who provide us with technology that we use in our technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our software solutions do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of any third party, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held or owned by others or that they will not in the future. Any future claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the applicable technology. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to our technology provided to the customer, which could obligate us to fund significant amounts. Infringement claims asserted against us or our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring certain of our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we market our software products, services and hosted solutions may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess personal medical information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials, which if we fail to keep properly protected, could subject us to significant liability. Our software solutions are used to collect, manage and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. This information is or could be considered to be personal medical information of the clinical trial participants or patients. Regulation of the use and disclosure of personal medical information is complex and growing. Increased focus on individuals' rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not that law affords a private right of action. Since we receive and process personal information of clinical trial participants and patients from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of any obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect this personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our current needs for general corporate purposes for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need or desire additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: •enhance our operating infrastructure; •develop new or enhance existing software products, services and hosted solutions; or •otherwise respond to competitive pressures; or •acquire businesses or technologies. 26 Table of Contents If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we incur debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, thus limiting funds available for our business activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In this regard, the availability of such financing may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including the effects of the recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our software products, services and hosted solutions, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our products or services or our customers' use of our products or services. Any failure or errors in a customer's clinical trial, post-approval or adverse event reporting obligations caused or allegedly caused by our products or services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by our customers or the clinical trial participants, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we are generally entitled to indemnification under our customer contracts against claims brought against us by third parties arising out of our customers' use of our products, we might find ourselves entangled in lawsuits against us that, even if unsuccessful, divert our resources and energy and adversely affect our business. Further, in the event we seek indemnification from a customer, we cannot assure you that a court will enforce our indemnification right if challenged by the customer obligated to indemnify us or that the customer will be able to fund any amounts for indemnification owed to us. We also cannot assure you that our existing general liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. We and our products and services could be subjected to governmental regulation, requiring us to incur significant compliance costs or to cease offering our products and services. The clinical trial process and safety evaluation, monitoring and reporting activities are subject to extensive and strict regulation by the FDA, as well as other regulatory authorities worldwide. Our electronic data capture, management and safety products and services could be subjected to state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that our products and service offerings will comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines as they develop or as they may be applied in the future. If our products or services fail to comply with any applicable government regulations or guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering our applicable products or services. Also, conforming our products and services to any applicable regulations and guidelines could substantially increase our operating expenses. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the drug approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Changes in the level of regulation, including a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions. Several competing proposals to reform the system of health care delivery in the United States have been considered and are currently being considered by Congress and the Executive. To date, none of the proposals has been adopted. While it is difficult to predict the impact of any proposal which may be adopted in the future, proposals that cause or contribute to a reduction in clinical research and development expenditures could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions. 27 Table of Contents For example, proposals to place caps on drug prices could limit the profitability of existing or planned drug development programs, making investment in new drugs and therapies less attractive to pharmaceutical companies. Likewise, a proposal for government-funded universal health care could subject expenditures for health care to governmental budget constraints and limits on spending. Finally, the uncertainty surrounding the possible adoption and impact of any health care reforms could cause our customers to delay planned research and development until some of these uncertainties are resolved. Risks Related to Our Industry We depend primarily on the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and are therefore subject to risks relating to changes in these industries. Our business depends on the clinical trial, post-approval and safety evaluation and monitoring activities conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and other entities engaged in these activities. General economic downturns, increased consolidation or decreased competition in the industries in which these companies operate could result in fewer products under development or decreased pressure to accelerate product approval which, in turn, could materially adversely impact our revenues. Recent disruptions in the world credit and equity markets as well as the related failures of several large financial institutions may also result in a global downturn in spending on clinical trial, post-approval and safety evaluation and monitoring activities. Any significant downturn in demand and spending for such solutions could lead to increased pressure on us to reduce prices or offer reduced services, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The adverse effects of any sustained downturn in demand or spending may be exacerbated by our research and development investments, strategic investments and merger and acquisition activity, as well as customer service and support, which may continue at the same or greater spending levels despite any such downturn. Our operating results may also be adversely impacted by other developments that affect these industries generally, including: •changes in general business conditions; •the discovery of safety issues with approved products or products in clinical development; •changes in the purchasing patterns of entities conducting clinical research and monitoring safety; •changes in government regulation; •the assertion of product liability claims; •changes in governmental price controls or third-party reimbursement practices; and •changes in medical practices. In addition, any decrease in research and development expenditures or in the size, scope or frequency of clinical trial, post approval and safety evaluation and monitoring activities conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other entities as a result of the foregoing or other factors could materially adversely affect our operations or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The market for our software products, services and hosted solutions is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. Accordingly, we are susceptible to rapid and significant declines in market share due to unforeseen changes in the features, functions or pricing of competing products. 28 Table of Contents Barriers to entry are relatively low and, with the introduction of new technologies and new market entrants, we expect that competition will increase. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, gross margins or market share. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, regulations and laws, or customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, larger customer bases, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, in light of these advantages, even if our products and services are more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our software products, services and hosted solutions. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Changing customer or prospective customer requirements could decrease the demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and broaden our software products, services and hosted solutions to meet the evolving needs of our customers and prospective customers. To achieve our goals, we need to effectively respond to our customers' and prospective customers' needs, technological changes and new industry standards and developments in a timely manner. If we are unable to enhance our existing product and service offerings or develop or acquire new products and services to meet changing requirements, demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions could suffer and our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs if we need to modify our products or services, or information technology infrastructure, to adapt to technological changes or new industry standards or developments. Changes in regulations and regulatory guidance applicable to our customers or potential customers and the approval process for their products may result in our inability to continue to do business. Demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions is largely a function of regulation and regulatory guidance associated with the approval and safety tracking of drugs, biological products and medical devices imposed upon the clinical trial process and post-approval activities by the U.S. federal government and related regulatory authorities such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by foreign governments. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the FDA approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Any change in the scope of applicable regulations and regulatory guidance could alter the type or amount of clinical trial or safety evaluation and monitoring spending or negatively impact interest in our software products, services and hosted solutions. Any regulatory reform that limits or reduces the research and development or safety spending of our customers or potential customers upon which our business depends could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or gross margins. 29 Table of Contents In addition, any failure to conform our software products, services and hosted solutions to domestic or international changes in regulations and regulatory guidance applicable to our customers or potential customers and the approval process for their products may result in our inability to continue to do business. Changing our software products, services and hosted solutions to allow our customers to comply with future changes in regulation or regulatory guidance, either domestically or internationally, could cause us to incur substantial costs. We cannot assure you that our product and service offerings will allow our customers and potential customers to stay in compliance with regulations and regulatory guidance as they develop. If our product and service offerings fail to allow our customers and potential customers to operate in a manner that is compliant with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, clinical trial sponsors and other entities engaged in clinical trial and safety evaluation and monitoring activities may be unwilling to use our software products, services and hosted solutions. Consolidation among our clients could cause us to lose clients, decrease the market for our products and result in a reduction of our revenues. Our customer base could decline because of consolidation, and we may not be able to expand sales of our products and services to new clients. Consolidation in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and among CROs has increased in recent years, and this trend could continue in light of the global economic downturn. In addition, new companies or organizations that result from such consolidation may decide that our products and services are no longer needed because of their own internal processes or the use of alternative systems. As these entities consolidate, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of establishing relationships with large industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Also, if consolidation of larger current customers occurs, the combined organization may represent a larger percentage of business for us and, as a result, we are likely to rely more significantly on the combined organization's revenues to continue to achieve growth. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares in the public markets and subject us to securities class action litigation. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and, accordingly, may not be indicative of future trading prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in estimates of the market size and opportunities available to us; •guidance of our expected future results, which is different than reported expectations of securities analysts •investors' general perception of us; •financial results that are below estimates of such results; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; 30 Table of Contents •announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; •success of competitive products and technologies; •future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt by us, or other changes in our capital structure; •the failure of any of our software products, services and hosted solutions to achieve or maintain commercial success; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •additions or departures of key personnel; and •litigation involving our company or our general industry or both. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Stock Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. There have been dramatic fluctuations in the market prices of securities of technology companies such as us. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Sharp drops in the market price of our common stock expose us to securities class-action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial expenses and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales of large blocks of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Some stockholders may acquire or own large blocks of shares of 5% or more of our outstanding capital. We cannot predict the effect that public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock, if any. If our stockholders, and particularly our directors and officers, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. In the future, we may also issue additional shares to our employees, directors or consultants, in connection with corporate alliances or acquisitions, and issue additional shares in follow-on offerings to raise additional capital. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. Such sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. On November 3, 2009, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $40.0 million of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, through a share repurchase program. We completed this repurchase program on February 16, 2010. In 2009, 942,862 shares of our common stock had been purchased as part of this repurchase program at an average price of $14.86 per share. On February 12, 2010, our board of directors increased the amount available under the share repurchase program by an additional $25.0 million. As authorized by the program, shares may be purchased in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in a manner consistent with applicable securities laws and regulations, including pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. This share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares and may be extended, suspended or discontinued at any time. All repurchases are expected to be funded from cash and cash equivalents. 31 Table of Contents While our board of directors has approved the share purchasing guidelines, the timing of the repurchases and the exact number of shares of common stock to be purchased will be determined at our management's discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors, including price, corporate and regulatory requirements and alternative investment opportunities. The new repurchase program is currently scheduled to terminate on December 31, 2010. Delaware law and our corporate documents may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a stockholders rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of the filing of this Annual Report, there were no unresolved comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year. 