Item 1A. Risk Factors: The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about currently, or that we currently believe are less significant, may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is influenced significantly by cyclical macroeconomic factors. Our revenues come predominantly from the office furniture industry, and demand for office furniture is influenced heavily by a variety of macroeconomic factors such as corporate profits, non-residential fixed investment, white-collar employment and commercial office construction and vacancy rates. During the past ten years, the U.S. office furniture industry has gone through two major downturns, with consumption declining by more than 30% from calendar year 2000 to 2003 and again from 2007 to 2009, according to the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer’s Association. During these downturns, our profitability has been significantly reduced. If the magnitude and frequency of cyclical downturns continues and we are not successful in adapting our business model, our profitability could be further impacted in the future. The current global recession may have a prolonged adverse effect on our business. Our revenues have declined significantly since the beginning of the current global recession, from $3.4 billion in 2008 to $2.3 billion in 2010. This decline has had a negative effect on our profitability, as well as the profitability of our dealers. Historically, the office furniture industry has lagged in recovery from an overall economic recovery by two to three quarters; however, due to the global financial crisis underlying this recession, it is possible that business capital spending and employment growth, coming out of this downturn, may be slower than typical, which would extend the recovery timeline for our industry and our company. If the recovery from this recession is prolonged, our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted. In such circumstances, we may take further action to restructure our business, which would result in additional restructuring costs, and we may delay progress on our growth 8 Table of Contents initiatives. In addition, the profitability and liquidity of our dealers, suppliers and customers could continue to be negatively impacted, which may result in increased provisions for credit losses, manufacturing delays and lower demand for our products. Failure to respond to workplace trends may adversely affect our revenue and profits. Changes in technology and the nature and location of work can have a significant impact on the demand for office furniture, the types of products purchased and the geographic location of the demand. For example, in recent years, workplace trends, driven largely by technology and the mobility of workers, have included a reduction in the amount of office floor space allocated per employee, a reduction in size and price of a typical workstation and an increase in telecommuting and work space hoteling. If we are unsuccessful in developing and offering products which respond to changes in the workplace, or if we fail to adapt our business to the geographic changes in where work is performed, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement and manage our growth strategies. We believe our future success depends on our ability to successfully implement and manage growth strategies that will preserve our position as the world’s largest office furniture manufacturer, as well as expand our offerings into adjacent and emerging markets. In particular, our strategies include: • protecting and expanding our success in existing markets, by migrating existing customers to newer products and attracting new customers, • continuing our expansion into adjacent markets such as the mid-market segment (smaller white collar worker firms), healthcare clinical spaces and classrooms and in-between spaces in the education market, • growing our market share in emerging markets such as China, India and the Middle East, • investing in acquisitions and new business ventures, and • developing new alliances and additional channels of distribution. If we do not implement our strategies successfully, or if our strategies are not sufficient to diversify and expand our revenue stream, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our continuing efforts to restructure our business will result in additional restructuring costs and may result in customer disruption. Over the past decade, we have implemented significant restructuring actions at an aggregate cost of more than $300. The focus of these actions has been on reinventing our industrial system through implementation of lean manufacturing principles, manufacturing facility consolidation and simplifying our product portfolio, and on reducing our operating expenses through white collar workforce reductions, applying lean-in-the-office principles, reinventing work processes and opening shared services centers in Malaysia and Mexico. Since 2000, we have reduced our manufacturing footprint (measured in square footage) globally by more than 50%, and our total number of employees globally has declined from 20,900 to 11,000. We continue to evolve and optimize our business model to be flexible and agile in meeting changing demand, and additional restructuring actions may be necessary as we continue to evolve our cost structure. The success of our restructuring initiatives is dependent on several factors, including our ability to manage these actions without disrupting existing customer commitments. Further, these actions may not be accomplished as quickly or effectively as anticipated and may distract management from other activities, and we may not realize the benefits of our restructuring activities, either of which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our investments in company-owned life insurance may continue to have a material effect on our earnings. We have invested in company-owned life insurance policies as a long-term funding source for certain employee post-retirement medical benefit, deferred compensation and supplemental retirement plan obligations. As of February 26, 2010, the cash surrender value of these investments was $209.6 on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. A portion of these policies are variable life insurance policies which are invested, at our direction, in equity and fixed income investments. As a result, the cash surrender values of these policies can increase or decline significantly based on volatility in the capital markets, which in turn can have a significant impact on our results of operations. During 2009, declines in the investments within our variable life insurance policies resulted in a non-tax deductible loss of $(42.1), and during 2010, we recorded non-taxable income of $33.3 from these policies. Our global presence subjects us to risks that may negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We have manufacturing facilities and sales, administrative and shared services offices in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our global presence is subject to risks that may limit our ability to design, develop, manufacture, or sell products in particular countries, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • political, social and economic instability, • intellectual property protection challenges, • differing employment practices and labor issues, • local business and cultural factors that differ from our global business standards and practices, • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions, including regulations governing trade between countries, • restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings, • natural disasters, security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest and global health issues, and • fluctuations in the rate of currency exchange and currency controls. We may be adversely affected by changes in raw material and commodity costs. We procure raw materials from a significant number of sources globally. These raw materials are not rare or unique to our industry. The cost of petroleum-based products, steel, wood, particleboard, aluminum, copper and other commodities, such as fuel and energy, has fluctuated significantly in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. These changes can also lead to supply interruptions. Our gross margins could be affected if these types of costs continue to fluctuate. In the short term, rapid changes in raw material costs can be very difficult to offset with price increases because of contractual agreements we have entered into with our customers and are difficult to find effective financial instruments to hedge against. Also, if we are not successful in passing along higher raw material costs to our customers, because of competitive pressures, our profitability could be negatively impacted. 10 Table of Contents Disruptions to the supply of raw materials, component parts and labor in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our supply chain management. We are reliant on the timely flow of raw materials and components from third party suppliers and labor in our own manufacturing operations. The flow of such materials and components may be affected by: • fluctuations in the availability and quality of the raw materials, • disruptions caused by labor activities, • the financial solvency of our suppliers, and • damage and loss or disruption of production from accidents, natural disasters and other causes. Our migration to a less vertically integrated manufacturing model has increased our reliance on a global network of suppliers. Any disruptions in the supply and delivery of component parts and products or deficiencies in our ability to develop and manage our network of suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely largely on a network of over 650 independent and company-owned dealers to market, deliver and install our products to customers. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with dealers. We have relatively low turnover of dealers in a typical year. From time to time, we or a dealer may choose to terminate our relationship, or the dealer could face financial difficulty leading to failure or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. In addition, our competitors could engage in a strategy to attempt to acquire or convert a number of our dealers to carry their products. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. However, disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to make financial investments in the dealership which would reduce the risk of disruption but increase our financial exposure. Establishing new dealers in a market can take considerable time and resources. A portion of our distribution network is company-owned because of the need for us to make financial investments in dealerships in order to preserve our market share and profitability in the affected regions. In certain markets, with certain customers and, to a limited extent, in the retail sales segment, we have adopted a direct model of distribution through which we establish company-owned sales and service capabilities. Our direct-sale and owned-dealer models sell non-Steelcase products where product gaps exist. If we are not able to effectively manage these businesses, they could have a negative effect on our operating results. We may be adversely impacted by product defects. Product defects can occur within our own product development and manufacturing processes or through our increasing reliance on third parties for product development, manufacturing and testing activities. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs, which can have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, the reputation of our brands may be diminished by product defects and recalls. We maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, but our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, 11 Table of Contents resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. We purchase insurance coverage to reduce our exposure to significant levels of product liability claims and maintain a reserve for our self-insured losses based upon estimates of the aggregate liability using claims experience and actuarial assumptions. Incorrect estimates or any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets which would adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. Poor performance in portions of our business where we have goodwill or intangible assets, or declines in the market value of our equity, may result in impairment charges, which would adversely affect our profitability. During 2008 and 2009, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $21.1 and 65.2, respectively. No goodwill or intangible asset impairments were recorded in 2010. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the carrying value of net assets to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. We estimate the fair values of the reporting units primarily using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of various factors. In addition, estimates of fair value are impacted by estimates of the weighted average costs of capital. Changes in these forecasts and estimates could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any. Our cost of borrowing may increase which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected by market conditions and credit ratings assigned to our long-term debt by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in significant part, on our financial performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well our business risk profile, which captures factors such as brand strength, scale and diversification of revenues. As of February 26, 2010, our long-term debt ratings are BBB- on CreditWatch from Standard & Poor’s and Ba1 with a negative outlook from Moody’s Investor Service. Although our current cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, cash generated from future operations, funds available from COLI and funds available under our credit facilities are expected to be sufficient to finance our known or foreseeable needs, a prolonged or further decline in demand could impact our financial performance and associated credit metrics which could lead to downgrades of our credit ratings. Any such downgrade may increase our cost of borrowing or limit our access to the capital markets, either of which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A ratings downgrade could also cause us to contemplate changes in our liquidity position and capital structure, including the amount of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments or the structure and level of debt that we maintain. There may be significant limitations to our utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We have deferred tax asset values related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) totaling $55.0 which reside primarily in various non-U.S. jurisdictions and reflect a $34.6 valuation allowance. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations in the applicable jurisdiction or implement tax, business or other planning strategies to fully utilize the estimated value of our NOLs. We have NOLs in various currencies that are also subject to foreign exchange risk, which could reduce the amount we may ultimately realize. Additionally, future changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws may limit our ability to fully utilize our NOLs. 12 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. The office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of product. We compete on a variety of factors, including: brand recognition and reputation, price, lead time, delivery and service, insight from our research, product design and features, product quality, strength of dealers and other distributors and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers and facility managers. The competitors that we face, our market share and our competitiveness on the factors stated above can vary significantly by geographic location within the U.S. and internationally. If we do not continue to compete successfully, our business could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 