Risk Factors" and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to revise or update these forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. ITEM 1: BUSINESS General We help organizations maximize their competitive advantage through the implementation and/or support of leading edge enterprise-level packaged-systems applications and legacy software systems by focusing primarily on serving clients in government markets. We also provide software support and training services to major corporations. We were organized as a Delaware corporation in July 1997 and completed our initial public offering ("IPO") on April 16, 1998. Our headquarters are in Pleasanton, California with field offices near Dallas, Texas. We also have service-delivery locations throughout the United States, including Arizona, Arkansas, California, Florida and Oregon. The mailing address of our headquarters is 6160 Stoneridge Mall Road, Suite 250, Pleasanton, California 94588, and our telephone number at that location is (925) 251-0000. Our website is WWW.BRIGHTSTAR.COM. Through the Investors link on our Website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All such filings are available free of charge. The information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. Products and Services We provide information technology ("IT") services for our customers. Since 1998, we have been a quality IT services provider. From inception to today, we have emphasized our core ERP practices in the SAP market, as well as its application support services for key major accounts. Through the restructuring actions of the last few years, we have striven to reduce our fixed costs to the scale of our recent business level. We believe we are properly positioned to focus on IT opportunities in the government sector, a vertical market in which it possesses strong reference accounts. For Enterprise Resource Planning ("ERP"), we implement and /or support software from SAP, A.G., covering a range of business processes, including finance, human resources and payroll. Our ERP solutions are tailored to fit the specific needs of individual organizations, helping them to automate business processes across the enterprise through the creation of a single data environment that spans departments and job functions. To help companies provide universal access to their information resources, we also provide training and other consulting services related to Actuate software. Actuate, with whom we are a gold level partner, provides organizations an effective platform for retrieving business information from corporate databases and delivering it as interactive web pages and Excel spreadsheets. In the legacy systems area, our consultants support the Fiscal Intermediary Standard System ("FISS") which is used to process claims under Medicare Part A. We provide these services as a subcontractor, approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"), to Pinnacle Business Solutions, Inc. ("PBSI") companies who is the prime contractor on the FISS maintenance contract with CMS. 2 Employees To provide our services, we recruit and employ project managers, skilled senior-level consultants, engineers and other technical personnel with both business as well as technical expertise. We believe this combination of business and technical expertise, the breadth and depth of our solution offerings and our ability to deliver these solutions in both the traditional consulting and implementation model, are sources of differentiation for us in the market for information technology services and critical factors in our success. Qualified technical employees are periodically in great demand and could become a limited resource in the future. We dedicate resources to recruiting professionals with IT consulting and industry experience. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining arrangement. As of March 24, 2006, we employed 31 employees, including 21 revenue generating employees and 10 sales and administrative employees. We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. Information About Operating Segment We operate primarily in the United States in the IT Services Business segment. Financial information regarding our business can be found in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto attached as an Exhibit to this Form 10-K as described in Item 15. Among the leading positive factors affecting the demand for IT services are the transition to packaged software solutions, the emergence of new technologies and the increased bandwidth and usability of the Internet through the World Wide Web. These new technologies enable the creation and utilization of more functional and flexible applications that can increase productivity, reduce costs and improve customer service. Negative on-going conditions affecting demand in the IT Services segment include the retrenchment of venture capital investment in new internet business enterprises, which began in 2000, the maturity of many packaged-software applications, especially ERP, and restraint in IT spending in sectors we service. Customers and Markets Our marketing efforts focus on mid-sized to large organizations that have a need for high quality consulting services to improve their use of enterprise applications and access to management information. We have developed expertise in the government vertical market and are continuing our efforts to leverage this knowledge. Many of our key relationships have existed for several years and have involved numerous activities and projects. We have a long term and current relationship with PBSI that represented approximately 50% of our business in 2005, 32% in 2004 and 36% in 2003. Nearly all of the revenue from PBSI is received under a single contract, which may be extended annually at the option of the client through January 14, 2007. In February 2006, we were notified that due to Congressional appropriations, all remaining resource hours under contract with PBSI will be temporarily reduced by 20 percent. All of our long-term contractual relationships, including our contract with PBSI, may be terminated for convenience by our clients without penalty on relatively short notice. We had two other unrelated customers, BearingPoint and Emerald Technology Services, which represented approximately 16% and 13% of our business in 2005. For 2005, PBSI accounted for approximately 34% of the total outstanding accounts receivable as of December 31, 2005. We had three other unrelated customers, BearingPoint, John Muir/Mt. Diablo Health System and Emerald Technology Services, which accounted for approximately 22%, 21% and 18% of our total outstanding accounts receivable balance, respectively. For 2004, PBSI accounted for approximately 30% of the total outstanding accounts receivable as of December 31, 2004. We also had two other unrelated customers, BearingPoint and John Muir/Mt. Diablo Health System, which accounted for approximately 34% and 13% of our total outstanding accounts receivable balance, respectively. Competition Market share in the IT industry was initially concentrated among large computer manufacturers but the industry has become increasingly competitive and fragmented. IT services are provided by numerous firms including multinational accounting firms, systems consulting and implementation firms, software application vendors, general management consulting firms and data processing outsourcing companies. By selling consulting resources for today's sophisticated enterprise applications, we are competing against a wide variety of organizations in the market place. These may range from certain of the major consulting firms (such as Accenture) to small private and public companies like us. 3 We strive to achieve competitive advantage in the market for IT services primarily in two ways. First, we have excellent customer references in our target markets. While the major systems integrators have these references as well, we believe many of our smaller competitors do not. Second, we provide high quality consultants at cost-effective billing rates, which we can deliver as a result of our low overhead cost structure. While the smaller services firms may have our low overhead, we believe our larger competitors usually do not. Directors and Executive Officers Ian Scott-Dunne, 60, has been the Chairman of our Board of Directors since April 2005 and is the President and CEO of Stellar Financial, Inc. as well as a Managing Member of Stellar McKim LLC. Mr. Scott-Dunne has over 30 years of technology sales and marketing experience in the international financial industry. For the past five years, Mr. Scott-Dunne has been a Director of Stellar Advisers, Inc., a registered investment adviser, a Director of Stellar Financial Inc. and a Managing Member of Stellar McKim LLC. In addition, Mr. Scott-Dunne serves as advisor to the The Vantage Funds, a private investment fund for which Stellar Advisors, Inc. is investment advisor. Stellar Advisors, Inc. and Stellar Financial Inc. are affiliates of Stellar McKim LLC. Mr. Scott-Dunne has an in-depth understanding of the trust, securities processing and mutual fund businesses, as well as the technologies supporting them, and has developed long term relationships with senior bank executives throughout the world. Mr. Scott-Dunne previously held trust/custody system sales and marketing positions with National Computer Services (NCS), Financial Technology International (FTI), Vista Concepts (then a NYNEX Company) and McDonnell Douglas Financial Services. Mr. Scott-Dunne's extensive knowledge and expertise have been essential in the development of the Stellar Financial's GSS Data Object Encyclopedia, Stellar's Business Events for Securities, and the overall development of Stellar Financial products. Mr. Scott-Dunne has worked with clients such as Midland Bank, NECIGEF (Dutch Depository), Dai-lchi Kangyo Bank, Bank of Tokyo, Royal Bank of Canada, National Australia Bank, Lloyds Bank, Christiana Bank, and Osterreichische Laenderbank, among others. James J. Cahill, 44, has been a Director since June 2005 and is the Chairman of our Corporate Communications Committee. Mr. Cahill has also been a Managing Member of Stellar McKim LLC since 2004 and a Managing Member of McKim & Company LLC since 1998. In addition, Mr. Cahill serves as a Director of McKim & Company LLC. Mr. Cahill has worked in the financial services industry for the past 20 years as an investment banker or investment portfolio manager. Prior to founding McKim & Company in 1998, Mr. Cahill was a Managing Director and Principal of MFR Securities, Inc. At MFR Securities, he managed all aspects of the firm, including directing its investment banking services, while maintaining regulatory compliance with the NASD. Previously, Mr. Cahill was a Managing Director of Investment Banking and a participant in the 1995 recapitalization of Laidlaw Global Securities. At Laidlaw, Mr. Cahill was a lead banker for both public and private financings as well as mergers & acquisitions, including the firm's principal acquisitions. Prior to Laidlaw, Mr. Cahill was a portfolio manager at TIAA-CREF and previously an investment banker at Goldman Sachs & Co. Mr. Cahill received a B.A. from Boston College and a Masters in Management from the Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University. Mr. Cahill is a licensed principal with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and holds Series 7, 24, 51 and 63 licenses. Robert H. Taggart, Jr., 43, has been a Director since June 2005 and is a member of our Corporate Communications Committee. Mr. Taggart has been a Director of McKim & Company LLC since July 2000 and is a Member of Stellar McKim LLC. Mr. Taggart has over 19 years of experience in the financial services industry. From 1998 to 2000, he was Executive Vice President and Managing Director of American Fronteer Financial Corporation. Prior to that, he was Vice President-Retail Sales at RAF Financial Corporation from 1994 to 1998. While at RAF, Mr. Taggart was directly responsible for taking the company from 25 account executives to 225 in thirteen cities in just three years and managed $750 million in customer assets. During his tenure at RAF, Mr. Taggart took public the parent company, Fronteer Financial Holdings, retired its debt and subsequently sold it to Heng Fung Holdings in 1998. While at RAF and American Fronteer, Mr. Taggart was directly responsible for closing over 25 transactions in excess of $200 million dollars in both the private and public markets. Prior to RAF Financial, Mr. Taggart was an account executive with Wolf & Company. Mr. Taggart has his series 7, 63 and 24 licenses. Mr. Taggart formerly served on the Denver Special Olympics Golf Committee and currently serves as the Founder and CEO of Front Range Amateur Hockey Association. He holds a B.S. degree in Business Administration from Albright College in Reading, PA. Leonard Zehnwirth, 47, has been a Director since June 2005 and is the Chairman of our Audit Committee. Mr. Zehnwirth is a financial management executive with over 24 years of diversified experience. He currently serves as a member of the Audit/Finance Committee and Investment Subcommittee of the NY Regional Association of Grantmakers and is a Trustee of the Board of Trustees of Hebrew Academy of Nassau County and a Director of F.Y. Eye, Inc. Since 2000, Mr. Zehnwirth has been Chief Financial Officer of FJC, a Foundation of Donor-Advised Funds, and since 1988 he has been Chief Financial Officer of the Silverman Family Office. Prior to that, Mr. Zehnwirth was a Senior Manager at Ernst & Whinney. Previously, Mr. Zehnwirth was employed at Goldstein, Golub, Kessler & Co. from 1981 to 1983 and at Anchin, Block & Anchin from 1980 to 1981. Mr. Zehnwirth received a BA in accounting & information systems from Queens College in 1980. He is a licensed Certified Public Accountant, a member of the American Institute of Public Accountants and a member of the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants. 4 Julie Houk, 40, has been a Director since June 2005 and is a member of our Audit Committee and the Chairman of our Compensation Committee. Ms. Houk has been Vice President Marketing & Development at The National Heritage Foundation, a public charitable corporation, since 1998 and served on its Board of Directors since 1994. She also serves as Secretary to the Board of Trustees of The Vantage Funds, a private investment fund of which The National Heritage Foundation is a shareholder. Stellar Advisors, Inc. is the investment advisor for The Vantage Funds. Ms. Houk is an executive-level communications professional with 18 years of experience in writing, editing, graphic design, website design, electronic communications, publishing, media and public relations and management. Before she assumed her present positions, Ms. Houk was Director of Marketing at Advanced Computer Concepts from 1994 to 1998 and Assistant Editor for ADPA Magazine from 1991 to 1994. Prior to that, Ms. Houk was Producer of Online News and Entertainment Services at Quantum Computer Services (now known as America Online). Ms. Houk received a B.A. in Communications from Virginia Tech in 1987. Deborah L. Seal, 54, has been a Director since June 2005. Ms. Seal is a member of our Compensation Committee and is our Chief Operating Officer. She is also Chief Operating officer of Stellar Financial, Inc. and a Member of Stellar McKim LLC. Ms. Seal has over 20 years of marketing, sales and business management experience with a variety of high technology firms. She co-founded Stellar Financial and its predecessor companies and products. Ms. Seal has managed corporate operations for Stellar Financial since its inception in October 2002. Prior to Stellar Financial, she was Vice President of Marketing for AGS Computer Systems, the Information Services subsidiary of NYNEX Corporation. Ms. Seal assisted NYNEX in achieving its strategic goal of divesting three financial software companies, which comprised approximately one third of the AGS Computers portfolio. Prior to joining AGS Computers, she was Vice President of Marketing for Vista Concepts, Inc., a provider of high-end securities processing and trust accounting systems to financial institutions throughout the world. Previous senior level technology marketing/sales experience included executive positions with Automated Technology Systems Corporation (artificial intelligence software); Grumman Data Systems database management and systems integration); and BRS Information Services. Ms. Seal frequently publishes articles and delivers speeches at international financial technology and software development conferences. She received her B.A. degree in Biology from Worcester State College and her Master of Natural Science (M.N.S.) degree from Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Brian S. Burnett, 47, has served as our Chief Executive Officer since April 2005. Mr. Burnett has over 25 years experience in software development and software related project management and professional services delivery. His experience encompasses a broad spectrum of technical consulting and senior technical management roles for technology, consulting, financial, academic and non-profit institutions. His experience includes positions with Eli Lilly and Company, Ernst & Young, Anderson Consulting, C/Soft and the National Christian Foundation. In addition, Mr. Burnett designed and implemented the first western-level MBA program for Moscow State University in Russia and has taught MBA and undergraduate classes in finance, marketing, management and business ethics. Mr. Burnett received his Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Computer Systems from Taylor University and received his MBA with a specialization in multinational management from The University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business. John M. Coogan, 38, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since April 2005. Mr. Coogan has over 12 years experience in the IT industry incorporating both system development and implementation. He has held a number of senior management positions including Managing Director, Implementation and Client Services for Stellar Financial, Inc., Vice President for BrightStar Information Technology Services, Inc. and CEO for Application Software Consulting Inc., an enterprise software implementation services company that he founded. Mr. Coogan has successfully managed a number of multi-million dollar enterprise software implementations and has provided management consulting services to emerging software companies. Mr. Coogan is a Certified Public Accountant and a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. Jordan L. Loewer, 56, has served as our Corporate Secretary since April 2005. Mr. Loewer has over 30 years experience in the financial services industries, including managing compliance/control processes, regulatory relations, securities and related markets, financial instruments, payment systems, business integration and divestitures and operations. Mr. Loewer also has extensive experience developing, implementing and directing internal control and compliance programs in Accounting and Operations, including Payment Systems, Capital Markets (Securities and Derivatives), Trust and Custody. Mr. Loewer founded McKim Capital Inc, a registered broker/dealer and Stellar Advisors Inc, a registered Investment Advisor firm, and is Director of Compliance for both firms, as well as providing regulatory compliance oversight for Stellar McKim, the parent company. Family Relationships There are no family relationships among any of our Directors and officers or those proposed to be Directors and officers. 5 Recent Developments Stellar Transaction - On April 14, 2005, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with Stellar McKim LLC ("Stellar"), a financial services and software group (the "Stellar Transaction"). Pursuant to the Stellar Transaction, we filed a Certificate of Designations creating a new series of Preferred Stock designated Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock") and issued and sold to Stellar (i) 41,487,929 shares of Common Stock, representing approximately 57.6% of our then authorized shares for $213,415 in cash and (ii) 136,585 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, which are convertible into 482,764,933 shares of our Common Stock, for $136,585 in cash. Authorization of the common stock underlying the Series A Preferred Stock issued to Stellar was approved by shareholders on September 20, 2005. Upon conversion of its Series A Preferred Stock, Stellar will own 94.5% of our common stock, on a fully diluted basis. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock has voting rights based on the number of shares of Common Stock into which it is convertible. Therefore, Stellar has approximately 94.7% of the voting power held by our stockholders in all matters upon which stockholders may vote. Pursuant to the Stellar Transaction, we also entered into an Omnibus Agreement (as amended, the "Omnibus Agreement"), with Stellar, BrightStar Information Technology Services, Inc. ("Services"), our principal operating subsidiary, and each holder (each a "Holder" and collectively the "Holders") of Service's Series 1 Convertible Subordinated Promissory Notes (the "Notes"), pursuant to which Stellar agreed to acquire all of the Notes from the Holders for $860,000. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement and the Purchase Agreement, the warrants that were originally issued in connection with the issuance of the Notes were cancelled, the conversion feature of the Notes was eliminated, the maturity of the Notes, as well as the due date for interest accrued at March 31, 2005, was extended until December 31, 2007 and we issued 13,869,121 shares of common stock to the Holders. The Stellar Transaction resulted in a change of control of BrightStar, upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, Stellar acquired in the Stellar Transaction, Stellar will own 94.5% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. Acquisition of Neulogic, LLC - On April 13, 2006, we completed the acquisition of all of the assets and business of Neulogic Media, LLC, an Ohio-based company ("Neulogic"), pursuant to the Purchase of Assets and Sale Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2005, as amended by the Addendum to the Purchase of Assets and Sale Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2006 between the Company and Nuelogic, Inc. (collectively, the "Asset Agreement"). Prior to the acquisition, Neulogic was in the business of providing e-communication solutions and content management systems to clients in the not-for-profit sector. Neulogic's assets primarily consisted of intangible assets, including web-based software products and implementing services, such as the NeuanceTM solution, that provides e-communication delivery ranging from secure intranets and extranets to a complete web presence (including targeted eMarketing), the intellectual and proprietary rights related thereto, and Neulogic's rights under contracts and license agreements with various community foundations. As consideration for the asset and business acquisition, we paid an aggregate of $1.8 million in cash and issued 139,000,000 shares of our common stock to the principals of Neulogic in accordance with the Asset Agreement. The shares so issued constitute approximately 20% of our total outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis. In connection with the Neulogic acquisition, we borrowed $1,800,000 from Stellar McKim LLC, which owns 94.7% of the outstanding voting power of the Company. The loan was evidenced by a Promissory Note, dated as of January 4, 2006, and is payable on January 4, 2009. Interest on the outstanding balance of the note accrues at the rate of 9% per annum and is payable annually commencing on the first anniversary of the date of the note. All amounts due under the note are payable, at the option of the Company, in cash or in shares of BrightStar Stock. In the event that we elect to pay amounts due under the note in shares of common stock, the shares shall be valued at the average trading price of our common stock for the 20 days immediately preceding the date of payment. All of the proceeds of the loan were paid to the principals of Neulogic. In connection with the Neulogic acquisition, we borrowed $1,800,000 from Stellar. The loan was evidenced by a Promissory Note, dated as of January 4, 2006, and is payable on January 4, 2009. Interest on the outstanding balance of the note accrues at the rate of 9% per annum and is payable annually commencing on the first anniversary of the date of the note. All amounts due under the note are payable, at our option, in cash or in shares of our common stock. In the event that we elect to pay amounts due under the note in shares of our common stock, the shares shall be valued at the average trading price of our common stock for the 20 days immediately preceding the date of payment. All of the proceeds of the loan were paid to the principals of Neulogic. 6 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR REVENUE IS CURRENTLY HIGHLY CONCENTRATED WITH ONE CUSTOMER AND A SIGNIFICANT REDUCTION IN THEIR BUSINESS COULD HAVE A MATERIALLY ADVERSE FINANCIAL CONSEQUENCE. We have a very high concentration of revenues from a single customer. See Item 1 (Customers and Markets). If the customer were to significantly reduce its level of business with us, or the customer were to change the terms under which it is willing to do business with us or substantially delay payments due to us, our business could be adversely affected and there can be no assurance that we would be able to continue as a going concern. OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, INCLUDING THE UNCERTAINTY OF OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE AND ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OR IMPROVE OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATING SYSTEMS, MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR BUSINESS. We were organized in July 1997 and completed our initial public offering in April 1998. Our limited operating history, which includes the roll-up of multiple businesses and related financial and operating systems, and a number of restructuring actions, makes it difficult to evaluate our business. In addition, the limited history of the performance of the our management and sales team and the uncertainty of our future performance and ability to maintain or improve our financial, sales and operating systems, procedures and controls increase the risk that the value of our common stock may decline. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ATTAIN PROFITABILITY BY INCREASING NET SALES, EXPANDING THE RANGE OF OUR SERVICES OR ENTERING NEW MARKETS. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attain profitability and/or expand the net sales of our business or any subsequently acquired businesses. Various factors, including demand for our services and enterprise-level software application implementation services, and our ability to expand the range of our services and to successfully enter new markets, may affect our ability to maintain or increase the net sales of our business or any subsequently acquired businesses. Many of these factors are beyond the control of our company. In addition, in order to effectively manage growth, we must expand and improve our operational, financial and other internal systems and attract, train, motivate and retain qualified employees. In many cases, we may be required to fund substantial expenditures related to growth and client acquisition initiatives in advance of potential revenue streams generated from such initiatives. Expenditures related to our growth and client acquisition initiatives may negatively affect our operating results, and we may not realize any incremental revenue from our growth and client acquisition efforts. FAILURE OF OUR MANAGEMENT TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE INTERNAL GROWTH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN OR INCREASE OUR REVENUES. If our management does not effectively handle internal growth or our new employees do not achieve anticipated performance levels, we may fail to maintain or increase our revenues. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT, TRAIN AND RETAIN HIGHLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, THE QUALITY OF OUR SERVICES MAY DECLINE AND WE MAY NOT SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE OUR INTERNAL GROWTH STRATEGIES. We have not had and do not expect to have, in the foreseeable future, the financial resources to retain on our payroll significant consulting resources that are not regularly billable. However, our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and experienced technical employees. Qualified technical employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our clients' requirements. Other providers of technical staffing services, systems integrators, outsourcing services, computer consulting firms and temporary personnel agencies provide intense competition for IT professionals with the skills and experience required to perform the services offered by our Company. While consulting resources are reasonably available currently, competition for these professionals periodically has been high in recent years, and we expect such competition to resume at some point in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical employees in the future. The loss of technical personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient technical personnel could impair our ability to secure and complete client engagements and could harm our business. 7 THE UNPREDICTABILITY OF OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE. Our revenue and results of operations will fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, or year to year, because of a number of factors which may lead to reduced prices for our common stock, including but not limited to: o the utilization of billable consultants; o changes in the demand for IT services; o the rate of hiring and the productivity of revenue-generating personnel; o the availability of qualified IT professionals; o the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; o the ability to complete fixed fee engagements, if any, in a timely and profitable manner; o the decision of our clients to retain us for expanded or ongoing services; o the number of business days in a quarter; o changes in the relative mix of our services; o changes in the pricing of our services; o the timing and rate of entrance into new geographic or vertical industry markets; o departures or temporary absences of key revenue-generating personnel; o the structure and timing of acquisitions; and o general economic factors. The timing of revenue is difficult to forecast because our sales cycle for some of our services can be relatively long and is subject to a number of uncertainties, including clients' budgetary constraints, the timing of clients' budget cycles, clients' internal approval processes and general economic conditions. In addition, as is customary in the industry, our engagements generally are terminable without client penalty. An unanticipated termination of a major project could result in a higher than expected number of unassigned persons or higher severance expenses as a result of the termination of the under-utilized employees. Due to all of the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our revenue and operating results should not be relied on as indicators of future performance, and the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of results to be expected for a full year. ANY ACQUISITIONS WE MAKE COULD RESULT IN DIFFICULTIES IN SUCCESSFULLY MANAGING OUR BUSINESS AND CONSEQUENTLY HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. As an integral part of our business strategy, we may seek to expand by acquiring additional information technology related businesses or unrelated lines of business. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments. We expect to face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and may lead to higher acquisition prices. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses, if any, into our Company, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. In addition, acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including: o failure of the acquired businesses to achieve expected results; o diversion of management's attention and resources to acquisitions; o failure to retain key customers or personnel of the acquired businesses; and o risks associated with unanticipated events, liabilities or contingencies. 8 Client dissatisfaction or performance problems at a single acquired firm could negatively affect our reputation. The inability to acquire businesses on reasonable terms or successfully integrate and manage acquired companies, or the occurrence of performance problems at acquired companies could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. OUR INABILITY TO OBTAIN CAPITAL, USE INTERNALLY GENERATED CASH OR DEBT, OR USE SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO FINANCE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS COULD IMPAIR THE GROWTH AND EXPANSION OF OUR BUSINESS. Reliance on internally generated cash or debt to complete acquisitions could substantially limit our operational and financial flexibility. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use shares of our common stock to consummate acquisitions will depend on our market value from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept it as full or partial payment. Using shares of our common stock for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to then existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use our common stock to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital for this purpose through debt or additional equity financings. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance a successful acquisition program or our other cash needs. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of any expansion. In addition to requiring funding for acquisitions, we may need additional funds to implement our internal growth and operating strategies or to finance other aspects of our operations. Our failure to (i) obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, (ii) to use internally generated cash or debt to complete acquisitions because it significantly limits our operational or financial flexibility, or (iii) to use shares of our common stock to make future acquisitions may hinder our ability to actively pursue our acquisition program. BECAUSE THE IT SERVICES MARKET IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND HAS LOW BARRIERS TO ENTRY, WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE TO LARGER COMPANIES THAT ARE BETTER EQUIPPED TO WEATHER A DETERIORATION IN MARKET CONDITIONS DUE TO INCREASED COMPETITION. The market for IT services is highly competitive and fragmented, is subject to rapid change and has low barriers to entry. We compete for potential clients with systems consulting and implementation firms, multinational accounting firms, software application firms, service groups of computer equipment companies, facilities management companies, general management consulting firms, programming companies and technical personnel and data processing outsourcing companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than our Company. In addition, we compete with our clients' internal management information systems departments. We believe the principal competitive factors in the IT services industry include: o responsiveness to client needs; o availability of technical personnel; o speed of applications development; o quality of service; o price; o project management capabilities; o technical expertise; and o ability to provide a wide variety of IT services. We believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including: o the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel; o the ownership by competitors of software used by potential clients; o the development of software that would reduce or eliminate the need for certain of our services; o the price at which others offer comparable services; and o the extent of our competitors' responsiveness to client needs. 9 It is possible that competition in the IT services industry could increase in the future, partly due to low barriers to entry. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share for us and greater competition for qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, or if competition among IT services companies results in a deterioration of market conditions for IT services companies, we could lose market share to our competitors. OUR FAILURE TO MEET A CLIENT'S EXPECTATIONS IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OUR SERVICES, AND THE RISKS AND LIABILITIES ASSOCIATED WITH PLACING OUR EMPLOYEES AND CONSULTANTS IN THE WORKPLACES OF OTHERS COULD GIVE RISE TO NUMEROUS CLAIMS AGAINST US. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Our failure or inability to meet a client's expectations in the performance of our services could result in a material adverse change to the client's operations and therefore could give rise to claims against us or damage our reputation. In addition, we are exposed to various risks and liabilities associated with placing our employees and consultants in the workplaces of others, including possible claims of errors and omissions, misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, discrimination and harassment, theft of client property, other criminal activity or torts and other claims. In addition, a small percentage of our projects are billed on a fixed-fee basis. While very small at present, as a result of competitive factors or other reasons, we could increase the number and size of projects billed on a fixed-fee basis. Our failure to estimate accurately the resources and related expenses required for a fixed-fee project, or failure to complete contractual obligations in a manner consistent with the project plan upon which a fixed-fee contract is based, could give rise to claims. OUR FAILURE TO KEEP PACE WITH THE RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY OR NEW INDUSTRY STANDARDS MAY RENDER OUR SERVICE OFFERINGS OBSOLETE. Our success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing service offerings, to develop and introduce new service offerings and to train our consultants in order to keep pace with continuing changes in IT, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these issues or that, even if these issues are addressed, we will be successful in the marketplace. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our services noncompetitive or obsolete. Our failure to address these issues successfully could cause our revenues to decrease and impede our growth. OUR FAILURE TO RETAIN ANY OF OUR KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL, TO HIRE COMPARABLE REPLACEMENTS OR TO ENFORCE NON-COMPETE AGREEMENTS AGAINST FORMER MANAGEMENT MEMBERS COULD HARM THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGIES. Our success will depend on the continuing efforts of our executive management and will likely depend on the senior management of any significant businesses we acquire in the future. In most states, however, a covenant not to compete will be enforced only to the extent it is necessary to protect a legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement, does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought and is not contrary to the public interest. This determination is made based on all the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. Thus, there can be no assurance that a court will enforce such a covenant in a given situation. Failure to retain any of our key management personnel and to attract and retain qualified replacements could harm the implementation of our growth strategies. 10 OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND DELAWARE LAW CONTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS THAT COULD DETER TAKEOVER ATTEMPTS, EVEN IF A TRANSACTION WOULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and provisions of Delaware law, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even though an acquisition might be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, one or more series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights (including preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and voting rights) as our board of directors may determine. The issuance of this "blank-check" preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. In addition, our certificate of incorporation contains a prohibition of stockholder action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent. This provision may also have the effect of inhibiting or delaying a change in control of our Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 