ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully read and consider the risk factors described below as well as the other information included in this report and other documents we file with the SEC, as the same may be updated from time to time. Any of these risks, if they actually occur, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect us. In any such case, you could lose all or a portion of your original investment. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for investors to resell shares of common stock at time or prices they find attractive. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: •Actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; •Changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; •Speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; •Strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; •Fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; •Future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; •Proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; •Anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involve or affect us; •Domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and •General market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect our stock price, notwithstanding our operating results. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and there can be no assurances about the levels of the market prices for our common stock. Trading in the common stock has been moderate. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock, particularly in large quantities. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market and a number of brokers offer to make a market in the common stock on a regular basis, trading volume to date has been limited, averaging approximately 53,810 shares per day during 2012, and there can be no assurance that a continuously active and liquid market for the common stock can be maintained. As a result, shareholders may find it difficult to sell a significant number of shares at the prevailing market price. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to pay dividends on the common stock, or repurchase shares of common stock may be limited. Although no dividend is currently being paid on the common stock, under the terms of the our Senior Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the "Series B Preferred Stock") issued under the Small Business Lending Fund Program (the "SBLF"), our ability to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of common stock is subject to restrictions. No repurchases of common stock may be effected, and no dividends may be declared or paid on the common stock during the current quarter and for the next three quarters following the failure to declare and pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock. Under the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Company may only declare and pay a dividend on the common stock, or repurchase shares of any such class or series of stock, if, after payment of such dividend, the dollar amount of the Company's Tier 1 Capital would be at least 90% of the Signing Date Tier 1 Capital, as set forth in the Articles Supplementary relating to the Series B Preferred Stock, excluding any subsequent net charge-offs and any redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock (the "Tier 1 Dividend Threshold"). The Tier 1 Dividend Threshold is subject to reduction, beginning on the second anniversary of issuance and ending on the tenth anniversary, by 10% for each one percent increase in QSBL over the baseline level. See "Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Common Equity" at page 32 for additional information on limitations of our ability to pay dividends. We may issue additional equity securities, or engage in other transactions which dilute our book value or affect the priority of the common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that we need to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock or other securities. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be affected. Such offerings, including an offering to fund the redemption of our Series B Preferred Stock, could be dilutive to common shareholders. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then current common shareholders. Additionally, if we raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Directors and executive officers of the Company own approximately 12.7% of the outstanding common stock. As a result of their combined ownership, they could make it more difficult to obtain approval for some matters submitted to shareholder vote, including acquisitions of the Company. The results of the vote may be contrary to the desires or interests of the public shareholders. Directors and executive officers of the Company and their affiliates own approximately 12.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock, excluding shares which may be acquired upon the exercise of options. By voting against a proposal submitted to shareholders, the directors and officers, as a group, may be able to make approval more difficult for proposals requiring the vote of shareholders, such as some mergers, share exchanges, asset sales, and amendments to the articles of incorporation. 19 Table of Contents Substantial regulatory limitations on changes of control and anti-takeover provisions of Maryland law may make it more difficult for you to receive a change in control premium. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be "acting in concert" from, directly or indirectly, acquiring more than 10% (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct the management or policies of our company without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. There are comparable prior approval requirements for changes in control under Maryland law. Also, Maryland corporate law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without the approval of the Company's board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. The current economic environment poses significant challenges for us and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Financial institutions continue to be affected by softness in the real estate market and constrained financial markets, highlighted by historically low market interest rates. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past years, with falling home prices and high levels of foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, although such conditions in the past year have been less severe than in 2010 and 2011. While conditions appear to have begun to improve, generally and in the Company's market area, should declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment re-emerge, such events could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. For example, further deterioration in local economic conditions in our market could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. The Company may also face the following risks in connection with these events: •Economic conditions that negatively affect housing prices and the job market (including loss of federal and local government jobs in our marketplace) may result in a deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolios, and such deterioration in credit quality has had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our business; •Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates on loans and other credit facilities; •The methodologies we use to establish our allowance for loan losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation; •Continued turmoil in the market, and loss of confidence in the banking system, could require the Bank to pay higher interest rates to obtain deposits to meet the needs of its depositors and borrowers, resulting in reduced margin and net interest income. If conditions worsen significantly, it is possible that banks such as the Bank may be unable to meet the needs of their depositors and borrowers, which could, in the worst case, result in the Bank being placed into receivership; and •Compliance with increased regulation of the banking industry may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and divert management efforts. If these conditions or similar ones continue to exist or worsen, the Company could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance for loan losses. Historically, we have enjoyed a relatively low level of nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, both in absolute dollars, as a percentage of loans and as compared to many of our peer institutions. As a result of this historical experience, we have incurred a relatively lower loan loss provision expense, which has positively impacted our earnings. However, experience in the banking industry indicates that a portion of our loans will become delinquent, that some of our loans may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid and we may experience other losses for reasons beyond our control. Despite our underwriting criteria and historical experience, we may be particularly susceptible to losses due to: (1) the geographic concentration of our loans; (2) the concentration of higher risk loans, such as commercial real estate, construction and commercial and industrial loans; (3) the relative lack of seasoning of certain of our loans. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our relatively low levels of nonperforming assets and charge-offs. Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb any inherent losses in our loan portfolio, these estimates of loan losses are necessarily subjective and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. If we need to make significant and unanticipated increases in our loss allowance in the future, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected at that time. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Economic conditions and increased uncertainty in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to accurately assess our allowance for credit losses. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. Our continued growth depends on our ability to meet minimum regulatory capital levels. Growth and shareholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help us meet them. While the Company had a very successful common stock raise in 2012, as we grow, we will have to maintain our regulatory capital levels at or above the required minimum levels. If earnings do not meet our current estimates, if we incur unanticipated losses or expenses, or if we grow faster than expected, we may need to obtain additional capital sooner than expected or we may be required to reduce our level of assets or reduce our rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory compliance. Under those circumstances net income and the rate of growth of net income may be adversely affected. Additional issuances of equity securities could have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Our results of operations, financial condition and the value of our shares may be adversely affected if we are not able to maintain our historical growth rate. Since opening for business in 1998, our asset level has increased rapidly, including a 20% increase in 2012. Over the past five fiscal years (2008 - 2012), our net income has increased at a compounded annual rate of 36%, with an increase in net income of 44% in 2012. We may not be able to achieve comparable results in future years. As our asset size and earnings increase, it may become more difficult to achieve high rates of increase in assets and earnings. Additionally, it may become more difficult to achieve 21 Table of Contents continued improvements in our expense levels and efficiency ratio. We may not be able to maintain the relatively low levels of nonperforming assets that we have experienced. Declines in the rate of growth of income or assets or deposits, and increases in operating expenses or nonperforming assets may have an adverse impact on the value of the common stock. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable to meet obligations as they come due, pay deposits when withdrawn, and fund loan and investment opportunities as they arise because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. If a financial institution is unable to meet its payment obligations on a daily basis, it is subject to being placed into receivership, regardless of its capital levels. Our largest source of liquidity is customer deposit accounts, including noninterest bearing demand deposit accounts, which at December 31, 2012, constituted 30% of our total deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act provided for temporary unlimited deposit insurance coverage for noninterest bearing demand deposit accounts through December 31, 2012, at no additional premium to the bank holding the deposit. Congress did not extend this unlimited deposit insurance coverage provision past December 31, 2012, which means that deposits in such accounts in excess of the generally applicable $250,000 coverage limit will no longer be insured. In the absence of such insurance, customers who would have uninsured deposits may decide to move their deposits to institutions which are perceived as safer, sounder, or "too big to fail" or could elect to use other non-deposit funding products, such as repurchase agreements, that would require the Bank to pay interest and to provide securities as collateral for the Bank's repurchase obligation. At December 31, 2012, the Bank had approximately $699 million of deposits in noninterest bearing demand accounts that would be uninsured deposits, or 24% of our total deposits. Based on activity through February 28, 2013, the Bank has not experienced any significant loss of deposits as a result of this law's expiration. While we believe that our strong earnings, capital position, relationship banking model and reputation as a safe and sound institution mitigate the risk of losing deposits now that unlimited insurance coverage for these accounts has expired, there can be no assurance that that we will not have to replace a significant amount of deposits with alternative funding sources, such as repurchase agreements, federal funds lines, certificates of deposit, brokered deposits, other categories of interest bearing deposits and FHLB borrowings, all of which are more expensive than noninterest bearing deposits. While we believe that we would be able to maintain adequate liquidity at reasonable cost, the loss of a significant amount of noninterest bearing deposits could have a material adverse affect on our earnings, net interest margin, rate of growth and stock price. We may not be able to successfully manage continued growth. We intend to seek further growth in the level of our assets and deposits and selectively in the number of our branches, both within our existing footprint and possibly to expand our footprint in the Maryland and Virginia suburbs, and in Washington, D.C. We may not be able to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities, and an expanded branch system, without increased expenses and higher levels of nonperforming assets. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances and a larger branch network, which may adversely impact earnings, shareholder returns and our efficiency ratio. Increases in operating expenses or nonperforming assets may have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. We may face risks with respect to future expansion or acquisition activity. We selectively seek to expand our banking operations through limited de novo branching or opportunistic acquisition activities, and expect to continue to explore such opportunities. We cannot be 22 Table of Contents certain that any expansion activity, through de novo branching, acquisition of branches of another financial institution or a whole institution, or acquisition of nonbanking financial service companies, will prove profitable or will increase shareholder value. The success of any acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the estimated cost savings and revenue enhancements from combining the businesses of the Company and the target company. Our ability to realize increases in revenue will depend, in part, on our ability to retain customers and employees, and to capitalize on existing relationships for the provision of additional products and services. If our estimates turn out to be incorrect or we are not able to successfully combine companies, the anticipated cost savings and increased revenues may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company's ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. As with any combination of banking institutions, there also may be disruptions that cause us to lose customers or cause customers to withdraw their deposits from our bank. Customers may not readily accept changes to their banking arrangements that we make as part of or following an acquisition. Additionally, the value of an acquisition to the Company is dependent on our ability to successfully identify and estimate the magnitude of any asset quality issues of acquired companies. Our concentrations of loans may create a greater risk of loan defaults and losses. A substantial portion of our loans are secured by real estate in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area and substantially all of our loans are to borrowers in that area. We also have a significant amount of real estate construction loans and land related loans for residential and commercial developments. At December 31, 2012, 78% of our loans were secured by real estate, primarily commercial real estate. Management believes that the commercial real estate concentration risk is mitigated by diversification among the types and characteristics of real estate collateral properties, sound underwriting practices, and ongoing portfolio monitoring and market analysis. Of these loans, $562.5 million, or 23% were construction and land development loans. An additional $545.1 million, or 22% of portfolio loans, were commercial and industrial loans which are generally not secured by real estate. The repayments of these loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the sale or development of the underlying property and as a result, are more likely to be adversely affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy in general. While we believe that our loan portfolio is well diversified in terms of borrowers and industries, these concentrations expose us to the risk that adverse developments in the real estate market, or in the general economic conditions in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, could increase the levels of nonperforming loans and charge-offs, and reduce loan demand. In that event, we would likely experience lower earnings or losses. Additionally, if, for any reason, economic conditions in our market area deteriorate, or there is significant volatility or weakness in the economy or any significant sector of the area's economy, our ability to develop our business relationships may be diminished, the quality and collectability of our loans may be adversely affected, the value of collateral may decline and loan demand may be reduced. Commercial, commercial real estate and construction loans tend to have larger balances than single family mortgages loans and other consumer loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate and construction loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming assets. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in: a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, under guidance adopted by the federal banking regulators, banks which have concentrations in construction, land development or commercial real estate loans (other than loans for majority owner occupied properties) would be expected to maintain higher levels of risk management and, potentially, 23 Table of Contents higher levels of capital. We may be required to maintain higher levels of capital than we would otherwise be expected to maintain as a result of our levels of construction, development and commercial real estate loans, which may require us to obtain additional capital sooner than we would otherwise seek it, which may reduce shareholder returns. Additionally, through ECV, we provide subordinated financing for the acquisition, development and construction of real estate or other projects, the primary financing for which may be provided by the Bank. These subordinated financings and the business of ECV will generally entail a higher risk profile (including lower priority and higher loan to value ratios) than loans made by the Bank. A portion of the amount which the Company expects to receive for such loans will be payments based on the success, sale or completion of the underlying project, and as such the income of the Company may be more volatile from period to period, based on the status of such projects. The Company may not be able to successfully operate or manage the business of providing higher loan to value financing. We may not be able to maintain growth in our Residential Lending department. Over the past two years, an increasing percentage of our noninterest income has been provided by the Bank's Residential Lending department, which originates residential mortgage loans on a pre-sold servicing released basis, for secondary market sale. The volume of loans originated and sold has increased significantly over the past few years to $1.5 billion of loans originated in 2012 as compared to $816 million in 2011. The residential mortgage business is highly competitive, and highly susceptible to changes in market interest rates, consumer confidence levels, employment statistics, the capacity and willingness of secondary market purchasers to acquire and hold or securitize loans, and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, in many respects, the mortgage origination business is relationship based, and dependent on the services of individual mortgage loan officers. The loss of services of one or more loan officers could have the effect of reducing the level of our mortgage production, or the rate of growth of production. As a result of these factors we cannot be certain that we will not be able to continue to increase the volume or percentage of revenue or net income produced by the residential mortgage business. Our financial condition, earnings and asset quality could be adversely affected if we are required to repurchase loans originated for sale by our Residential Lending department. The Bank originates residential mortgage loans for sale to secondary market investors, subject to contractually specified and limited recourse provisions. In 2012, the Bank originated $1.5 billion and sold $1.4 billion to investors, as compared to $872 million originated and $717 million sold in 2011 and $461 million originated and $450 million sold in 2010. Because the loans are intended to be originated within investor guidelines, designated automated underwriting and product specific requirements as part of the loan application, the loans sold have a limited recourse provision. In general, the Bank may be required to repurchase a previously sold mortgage loan or indemnify the investor if there is non-compliance with defined loan origination or documentation standards, including fraud, negligence, material misstatement in the loan documents or noncompliance with applicable law. In addition, the Company may have an obligation to repurchase a loan if the mortgagor has defaulted early in the loan term. The potential mortgagor early default repurchase period is up to approximately twelve months after sale of the loan to the investor. The recourse period for fraud, material misstatement, breach of representations and warranties, noncompliance with law, or similar matters could be as long as the term of the loan. Mortgages subject to recourse are collateralized by single-family residential properties, have loan-to-value ratios of 80% or less, or have private mortgage insurance. From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2012, we have only been required to repurchase a loan or indemnify a purchaser on two occasions. However, if we become required to repurchase a significant number of loans, whether because of early default, fraud, breach of representations, material misstatement, legal noncompliance or otherwise, our financial condition, earnings and asset quality could be adversely impacted, which could adversely impact our share price. 24 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates and other factors beyond our control could have an adverse impact on our financial performance and results. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on our net interest margin, i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest bearing assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities. Net interest margin is affected by changes in market interest rates, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest bearing liabilities mature or re-price more quickly than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or re-price more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control, including competition, general economic conditions and monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board. We attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, re-pricing, and balances of the different types of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, but interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations. At December 31, 2012, our cumulative net asset sensitive twelve month gap position was 16.41% of total assets, which includes loans currently at their floor rates. As such, we expect modest decreases of approximately minus 0.2% and minus 6.1%, respectively, in projected net interest income and net income over a twelve month period resulting from a 100 basis point increase in rates, as loans currently at floor rates which are above the calculated contractual rate do not adjust upon a rate increase, and our residential mortgage origination and sale volume could decline as interest rates increase. The results of our interest rate sensitivity simulation model depend upon a number of assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage our interest rate risk. Adverse changes in the real estate market in our market area could also have an adverse affect on our cost of funds and net interest margin, as we have a large amount of noninterest bearing deposits related to real estate sales and development. While we expect that we would be able to replace the liquidity provided by these deposits, the replacement funds would likely be more costly, negatively impacting earnings. We may not be able to successfully compete with others for business. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is a highly competitive banking market. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with numerous regional and national banks, online divisions of out-of-market banks, and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders. Many competitors have substantially greater resources than us, and operate under less stringent regulatory environments. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. The Company has been very successful in developing new customer relationships by capitalizing on the reluctance of many large regional and nationwide banks to lend over the past several years, and the demise of the commercial mortgage backed securities market and other nonbank sources of financing. These new relationships have resulted in significant increases in both loans and deposits, and have contributed to increased earnings. As the economy improves and these competitors recommence lending, we may not be able to retain the loans and deposits produced by these new relationships. While we believe that our relationship banking model will enable us to keep a significant percentage of these new relationships, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, that we would be able to maintain 25 Table of Contents favorable pricing, margins and asset quality, or that we will be able to grow at the same rate we did when such alternative financing was not widely available. Government regulation will significantly affect the Bank's business, and may result in higher costs and lower shareholder returns. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. The Company and Bank are regulated and supervised by the Maryland Department of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. The Bank is also subject to regulations promulgated by the CFPB. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. Changes in the laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. Federal economic and monetary policy may also affect our ability to attract deposits and other funding sources, make loans and investments, and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. New or changed legislation or regulation and regulatory initiatives could subject us to increased regulation, increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect us. Changes in federal and state legislation and regulation may affect our operations. New and modified regulation, such as the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III, may have unforeseen or unintended consequences on our industry. The Dodd-Frank Act has implemented, and is expected to further implement, significant changes to the U.S. financial system, including the creation of new regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council to oversee systemic risk and the CFPB to develop and enforce rules for consumer financial products), changes in retail banking regulations, and changes to deposit insurance assessments. Additionally, proposed rules to implement Basel III would revise risk-based and leverage capital requirements and also limit capital distributions and certain discretionary bonuses if a banking organization does not hold a "capital conservation buffer." This additional regulation could increase our compliance costs and otherwise adversely affect our operations. The potential also exists for additional federal or state laws or regulations, or changes in policy or interpretations, affecting many of our operations, including capital levels, lending and funding practices, insurance assessments, and liquidity standards. The effect of any such changes and their interpretation and application by regulatory authorities cannot be predicted, may increase the Company's cost of doing business and otherwise affect our operations, may significantly affect the markets in which the Company does business, and could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. In addition, recent government responses to the condition of the global financial markets and the banking industry has, among other things, increased our costs and may further increase our costs for items such as federal deposit insurance. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured institutions, such as the Bank, up to applicable limits. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have placed greater stress on the Deposit Insurance Fund due to an increase in bank failures in which case the FDIC would pay all deposits of a failed bank up to the insured amount from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Increases in deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect the Company's net income. The CFPB, which has now been in operation for over a year, has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on reforms related to residential mortgage transactions. In 2013, the CFPB issued final rules related to a borrower's ability to repay and qualified mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation standards, requirements for high-cost mortgages, appraisal and escrow standards and requirements for higher-priced mortgages. Several of the CFPB's rulemakings were issued in January 26 Table of Contents 2013, and we continue to analyze their requirements to determine the impact of the rules to our businesses. During 2013, we expect the CFPB to focus its rulemaking efforts on integrating disclosure requirements for lenders and settlement agents and expanding the scope of information lenders must report in connection with mortgage and other housing-related loan applications under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. These rules include significant regulatory and compliance changes and are expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry. On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule to implement sections of the Dodd-Frank Act that will require lenders to determine whether a consumer has the ability to repay a mortgage loan. The rule, which goes into effect on January 10, 2014, establishes certain minimum requirements for creditors when making ability to pay determinations, and establishes certain protections from liability for mortgages meeting the definition of "qualified mortgages." Generally, the rule applies to all consumer-purpose, closed-end loans secured by a dwelling including home-purchase loans, refinances and home equity loans-whether first or subordinate lien. The rule does not cover, among other things, home equity lines of credit or other open-end credit; temporary or "bridge" loans with a term of 12 months or less, such as a loan to finance the initial construction of a dwelling; a construction phase of 12 months or less of a construction-to-permanent loan; and business-purpose loans, even if secured by a dwelling. The rule affords greater legal protections for lenders making qualified mortgages that are not "higher priced." Qualified mortgages must generally satisfy detailed requirements related to product features, underwriting standards, and a points and fees requirement whereby the total points and fees on a mortgage loan cannot exceed specified amounts or percentages of the total loan amount. Mandatory features of a qualified mortgage include: (1) a loan term not exceeding 30 years; and (2) regular periodic payments that do not result in negative amortization, deferral of principal repayment, or a balloon payment. Further, the rule clarifies that qualified mortgages do not include "no-doc" loans and loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, or balloon payments. The rule creates a special category of qualified mortgages originated by certain smaller creditors that operate in predominantly rural or underserved areas, as defined by the CFPB. Concurrently with the final "ability to repay" rule, the CFPB released a proposal that, among other things, may define a separate category of qualified mortgages for certain smaller creditors. Our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may change as the rule become becomes effective and is interpreted by the regulators and courts. On January 17, 2013, the CFPB issued final rules containing new mortgage servicing standards which will take effect on January 10, 2014. The final rules impose new requirements regarding force-placed insurance, mandate certain notices prior to rate adjustments on adjustable-rate mortgages, and establish requirements for periodic disclosures to borrowers. These requirements will affect notices to be given to consumers as to delinquency, foreclosure alternatives, modification applications, interest rate adjustments and options for avoiding "force-placed" insurance. Servicers will be prohibited from processing foreclosures when a loan modification is pending, and must wait until a loan is more than 120 days delinquent before initiating a foreclosure action. Servicers must provide direct and ongoing access to its personnel, and provide prompt review of any loss mitigation application. Servicers must maintain accurate and accessible mortgage records for the life of a loan and until one year after the loan is paid off or transferred. These new standards are expected to increase the cost and compliance risks of servicing mortgage loans. While the Bank has a general practice of selling the residential mortgage loans it originates in the secondary market, it continues to engage in servicing activities for the loans it maintains in its portfolio. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these inquiries, actions, or regulatory changes or the impact that they could have on our financial condition, results of operations, or business. While the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and the CFPB rulemakings cannot be assessed until all implementing regulations are released and become effective, the Dodd-Frank Act's extensive requirements may have a significant effect on the financial markets, and may affect the availability or terms of financing from our lender counterparties and the availability or terms of mortgage-backed securities, both of which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The CFPB's rules are 27 Table of Contents likely to result in increased compliance costs and fees, along with possible restrictions on our operations, any of which may have a material adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. Our customers, and businesses in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in general, may be adversely impacted as a result of the Federal government budget sequestration. Sequestration is the process of automatic, largely across-the board, spending reductions under which federal budgetary resources are permanently canceled by a uniform percentage, is required pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011 ("BCA") or the Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010 under certain circumstances. While there are multiple sequestration triggers relating to the federal budget, one trigger for sequestration under the BCA is if Congress fails to enact legislation developed by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the "Deficit Committee") by January 15, 2012 to reduce the federal budget by at least $1.2 trillion. This deadline was not met, and as a result, the first spending cut was scheduled to commence on January 2, 2013, but legislation was enacted to delay its commencement to March 1, 2013. As a result of the failure to enact a further delay or appropriate budget measures, spending cuts are scheduled to go into effect. While the Company does not have a significant level of loans to federal government contractors or their subcontractors, the impact of a decline in federal government spending, or a delay in payments to such contractors, could have a ripple effect. Temporary layoffs, salary reductions or furloughs of government employees or government contractors could have adverse impacts on other businesses in the Company's market and the general economy of the greater Washington D.C. metropolitan area, and may indirectly lead to a loss of revenues by the Company's customers, including vendors and lessors to the federal government and government contractors or to their employees, as well as a wide variety of commercial and retail businesses.. Accordingly, sequestration could lead to increases in past due loans, nonperforming loans, loan loss reserves, and charge offs, and a decline in liquidity. Our operations rely on certain external vendors. Our business is dependent on the use of outside service providers that support our day-to-day operations including data processing and electronic communications. Our operations are exposed to risk that a service provider may not perform in accordance with established performance standards required in our agreements for any number of reasons including equipment or network failure, a change in their senior management, their financial condition, their product line or mix and how they support existing customers, or a simple change in their strategic focus. While we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place to mitigate risk at all phases of service provider management from selection, to performance monitoring and renewals, the failure of a service provider to perform in accordance with contractual agreements could be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of our operations. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 