Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Industry We depend primarily on the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries and are therefore subject to risks relating to changes in these industries. Our business depends on the clinical trial, post approval and safety monitoring activities conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies and other entities engaged in these activities. General economic downturns, increased consolidation or decreased competition in the industries in which these companies operate could result in fewer products under development or decreased pressure to accelerate product approval which, in turn, could materially adversely impact our revenues. Our operating results may also be adversely impacted by other developments that affect these industries generally, including: · the introduction or adoption of new technologies or products; · the discovery of safety issues with approved products or products in clinical development; 14 · the assertion of product liability claims; · changes in third-party reimbursement practices; · changes in government regulation or governmental price controls; · changes in medical practices; · changes in the purchasing patterns of entities conducting clinical research and monitoring safety; and · changes in general business conditions. Any decrease in research and development expenditures or in the size, scope or frequency of clinical trial, post approval and safety monitoring activities conducted or sponsored by pharmaceutical, biotechnology or medical device companies or other entities as a result of the foregoing or other factors could materially adversely affect our operations or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will be harmed. The market for our software products, services and hosted solutions is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. Accordingly, we are susceptible to rapid and significant declines in market share due to unforeseen changes in the features, functions or pricing of competing products. Barriers to entry are relatively low and, with the introduction of new technologies and new market entrants, we expect that competition will increase. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures, which could negatively impact our sales, gross margins or market share. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories and significantly greater resources. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established, and may in the future establish, cooperative relationships with vendors of complementary products, technologies or services to increase the availability of their products to the marketplace. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances may emerge that have greater market share, larger customer bases, more widely adopted proprietary technologies, greater marketing expertise and larger sales forces than we have, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Further, in light of these advantages, even if our products and services are more effective than the product or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our software products, services and hosted solutions. We cannot assure you that we can maintain or enhance our competitive position against current and future competitors. Changing customer or prospective customer requirements could decrease the demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and broaden our software products, services and hosted solutions to meet the evolving needs of our customers and prospective customers. To achieve our goals, we need to effectively respond to our customers’ and prospective customers’ needs, technological changes and new industry standards and developments in a timely manner. If we are unable to enhance our existing product and service offerings or develop new products and services to meet changing requirements, demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions 15 could suffer and our revenues and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs if we need to modify our products or services, or information technology infrastructure, to adapt to technological changes or new industry standards or developments. Changes in regulations and regulatory guidance applicable to our customers or potential customers and the approval process for their products may result in our inability to continue to do business. Demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions is largely a function of regulation and regulatory guidance associated with the approval and safety tracking of drugs, biological products and medical devices imposed upon the clinical trial process and post-approval activities by the U.S. federal government and related regulatory authorities such as the FDA and by foreign governments. In recent years, efforts have been made to streamline the FDA approval process and coordinate U.S. standards with those of other developed countries. Any change in the scope of applicable regulations and regulatory guidance could alter the type or amount of clinical trial or safety monitoring spending or negatively impact interest in our software products, services and hosted solutions. Any regulatory reform that limits or reduces the research and development or safety spending of our customers or potential customers upon which our business depends could have a material adverse effect on our revenues or gross margins. In addition, any failure to conform our software products, services and hosted solutions to domestic or international changes in regulations and regulatory guidance applicable to our customers or potential customers and the approval process for their products may result in our inability to continue to do business. Changing our software products, services and hosted solutions to allow our customers to comply with future changes in regulation or regulatory guidance, either domestically or internationally, could cause us to incur substantial costs. We cannot assure you that our product and service offerings will allow our customers and potential customers to stay in compliance with regulations and regulatory guidance as they develop. If our product and service offerings fail to allow our customers and potential customers to operate in a manner that is compliant with applicable regulations and regulatory guidance, clinical trial sponsors and other entities engaged in clinical trial and safety monitoring activities may be unwilling to use our software products, services and hosted solutions. If entities engaged in clinical trials do not shift from traditional paper-based methods of collecting clinical trial data to electronic system, we may not achieve the market penetration necessary to maintain profitability. If entities engaged in clinical trials are unwilling to use our electronic data capture solutions or to change the way of collecting clinical trial data, our future growth and market share may be limited. Most clinical trials today rely on pre-printed, three-part paper case report forms for data collection. Our efforts to establish an electronic process to capture clinical trial data are a significant departure from the traditional paper-based methods of collecting clinical trial data. As is typical for new and rapidly evolving industries, customer demand for recently introduced technology is highly uncertain. We may not be successful in persuading entities engaged in clinical trials to change the manner in which they have traditionally collected clinical trial data and to accept our software products, services and hosted solutions. If we fail to convince entities engaged in clinical trials to use our methods of capturing clinical trial data, our revenues may be limited and we may fail to maintain profitability. Risks Related to Our Company Our software products and hosted solutions are at varying stages of market acceptance and the failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain wide acceptance would harm our operating results. We began offering our InForm electronic data capture software solution for clinical trials in December 1998. Although the Clintrial and Clintrace products were introduced over 10 years ago, we did not begin offering these products until after our acquisition of Clinsoft Corporation in 2001. We only 16 began offering our WebVDME, CTSD and WedSDM products after our August 2005 acquisition of Lincoln. Continued use of our InForm, Clintrial and Clintrace software products, and broad and timely acceptance of our WebVDME, CTSD and WedSDM products, as well as integrated solutions combining one or more of our software products, is critical to our future success and is subject to a number of significant risks, some of which are outside our control. These risks include: · our customers’ and prospective customers’ desire for and acceptance of our electronic data capture, management and safety software solutions; · our software products and hosted solutions’ ability to support large numbers of users and manage vast amounts of data; · our customers’ ability to use our software products and hosted solutions, train their employees and successfully deploy our technology in their clinical trial and safety monitoring activities; · our ability to meet product development and release schedules; and · our ability to significantly expand our internal resources and increase our capital and operating expenses to support the anticipated growth and continued integration of our software products, services and hosted solutions. Our failure to address, mitigate or manage these risks would seriously harm our business, particularly if the failure of any or all of our software products or hosted solutions to achieve market acceptance negatively affects our sales of our other products and services. Our operating results may fluctuate and could cause the market price of our common stock to fall rapidly and without notice. Our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, particularly because of the evolving market in which we operate and our term license model. Our results of operations in any given quarter will be based on a number of factors, including: · the timing of our product sales and the length of our sales and implementation cycles; · the timing and mix of license and services revenues, and the amount and type of service required in delivering certain projects; · changes in and timing of our operating expenses; · the extent to which our software products, services and hosted solutions achieve or maintain market acceptance; · our ability to introduce new products and services and enhancements to our existing products and services on a timely basis; · the competitive environment in which we operate; · our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel; · changes in the regulatory environment related to the clinical trial and safety monitoring market; · changes in our customers’ purchasing patterns; · the financial condition of our current and potential customers; and · the timing, size and integration success of potential future acquisitions. A significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed in nature and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenues. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls or 17 operating expenses may decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Results of operations in any quarterly period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially either suddenly or over time. The loss of one or more major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 37% of our revenues during the year ended December 31, 2005. Two customers, Eli Lilly and Company and GlaxoSmithKline, together accounted for approximately 25% of our total revenues for the same period. The loss of any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our customer relationships, and our customers may not renew their agreements with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any of these customers could also have a material adverse effect on the collectibility of our accounts receivables, our liquidity and our future operating results. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not continue to be profitable in the future. We incurred significant losses in each year from our inception in September 1997 through 2003 and we may incur significant operating losses in the future. As a result of our operating losses and accretion of preferred dividends, we had an accumulated deficit of $101.0 million at December 31, 2005. You should not consider recent revenue growth as indicative of our future performance as our operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, we expect our development, sales and other operating expenses to increase in the future. If our revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased expenses, we may not continue to be profitable. In fact, in future quarters we may not have any revenue growth and our revenue could decline. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. As a result of long sales cycles and our business model, we may be required to spend substantial time and expense before we recognize a significant portion of the revenues, if any, attributable to our customer contracts. The sales cycle for some of our software solutions frequently takes in excess of nine months from initial customer contact to contract execution. During this time, we may expend substantial time, effort and financial resources without realizing any revenue with respect to the potential sale. In addition, while we generally begin recognizing revenue upon the execution of our agreements for software term licenses and related services, it may be difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as license revenue and, when applicable, related services revenue, from new customers is recognized over the applicable license term, typically three to five years. As a result, we may not recognize significant revenues, if any, from some customers despite incurring considerable expense related to our sales, implementation, and service delivery processes. Even if we do realize revenues from a contract, our term license pricing model may keep us from recognizing a significant portion of these revenues (including revenues for related services) during the same period in which sales, implementation, and service delivery expenses were incurred. For example, pursuant to our contract with GlaxoSmithKline, we incurred significant up-front implementation and other service expenses associated with delivery of services for the initial orders under the contract, whereas the revenues for these initial orders are being recognized ratably over an approximately 5-year period from July 2004. Timing differences of this nature could cause our service gross margins and profitability to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Similarly, a decline in new or renewed software term licenses in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the 18 revenue in that quarter and may negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. This could also cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. If we are unable to retain our personnel and hire additional skilled personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and contract workers, particularly our management team, sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel and software engineers. Each of our executive officers and other employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The loss of any member of our management team might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives and could materially harm our business. In addition, because of the technical nature of our software products, services and hosted solutions and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract and retain qualified direct sales, professional services and product development personnel, as well as our contract workers, could have a material adverse affect on our ability to generate sales, successfully develop new software products, services and hosted solutions or software enhancements or deliver services and solutions as requested by our customers. We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could cause disruption of our business and loss of value or dilution to our stockholders. From time to time, we evaluate potential investments in, and acquisitions of, complimentary technologies, services and businesses. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, acquisitions or significant investments in other businesses. For example, we acquired Clinsoft Corporation in 2001 and Lincoln in 2005. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including: · difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; · the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we eventually realize or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; · potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; · managing the risks of entering markets or types of businesses in which we have limited or no direct experience; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and · assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products. In addition, if we finance any future acquisitions by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, our existing stockholders may be diluted or the market price of our stock may be adversely affected. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. 19 Claims that we or our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party may require us to incur significant costs, to enter into royalty or licensing agreements or to develop or license substitute technology. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims that our technologies infringe upon the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of a third party. For instance, we recently settled a lawsuit filed in 2004 by Dr. Mark L. Kozam, doing business under the name MLK Software and Datasci, LLC against us and one of our customers which alleged that we infringed a patent claimed to be owned by them. We incurred substantial professional fees in connection with this claim and agreed to make a one-time payment of $8.5 million to Datasci in order to settle this litigation and to obtain a non-exclusive, fully paid-up license to the patent on a going forward basis. In addition, the vendors who provide us with technology that we use in our technology could become subject to similar infringement claims. Although we believe that our software solutions do not infringe the patents of any third party, we cannot assure you that our technology does not infringe patents held by others or that they will not in the future. Any future claims of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is without merit, and could distract our management from our business. Moreover, any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from the claim could require us to pay substantial amounts or obtain a license to continue to use the technology that is the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of the technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license from the third party asserting the claim on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, that we would be able to successfully develop alternative technology on a timely basis, if at all, or that we would be able to obtain a license from another provider of suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering, and our customers to continue using, the applicable technology. In addition, we generally provide in our customer agreements that we will indemnify our customers against third-party infringement claims relating to our technology provided to the customer, which could obligate us to fund significant amounts. Infringement claims asserted against us or our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be unable to adequately protect, and we may incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely upon a combination of trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality, non-competition and assignment of inventions agreements. To the extent that our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected, third parties might gain access to our proprietary information, develop and market products or services similar to ours, or use trademarks similar to ours, each of which could materially harm our business. Existing U.S. federal and state intellectual property laws offer only limited protection. Moreover, the laws of other countries in which we market our software products, services and hosted solutions may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. The failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 20 Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party providers could impair the delivery of our hosted solutions and harm our business. We host some of our software solutions, primarily our InForm hosted solution, at third-party facilities. Consequently, the occurrence of a natural disaster, technical or service lapses, or other unanticipated problems at the facilities of our third-party providers could result in unanticipated interruptions in our customers’ access to our hosted solutions. Our hosted services may also be subject to sabotage, intentional acts of malfeasance and similar misconduct due to the nature of the Internet. In the past, Internet users have occasionally experienced difficulties with Internet and online services due to system or security failures. We cannot assure you that our business interruption insurance will adequately compensate our customers or us for losses that may occur. Even if covered by insurance, any failure or breach of security of our systems could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Further, certain of our hosted InForm electronic data capture solutions are subject to service level agreements that guarantee 95% to 99% server availability. In the event that we fail to meet those levels, whether resulting from an interruption in service caused by our technology or that of a third-party provider, we could be subject to customer credits or termination of these customer contracts. Failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could harm our business. We have been experiencing a period of rapid growth that is placing a significant strain on our operational and financial resources and our personnel. From January 1, 1999 to December 31, 2005, the number of our employees increased from 35 to approximately 409. To manage our anticipated future growth effectively, we must continue to maintain and may need to enhance our information technology infrastructure, financial and accounting systems and controls and manage expanded operations in geographically distributed locations. We will also be required to attract, integrate, train and retain a significant number of qualified sales and marketing personnel, professional services personnel, software engineers and other management personnel. Our failure to manage our rapid growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure of our technology and products could harm our business and operating results. The technology underlying our software products and hosted solutions processes vast amounts of clinical and safety data. Customers relying on our products to collect, to manage and report clinical and safety information may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers of software products in general. In the past, failures of our technology and human error have negatively impacted the data capture, management or reporting capabilities of our products, and new errors may be detected in the future. Any delay or failure of our technology may result in the disruption of our customers’ clinical trial or safety monitoring processes and could harm our business and operating results. Product or service errors could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products and services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. In addition, security breaches, whether intentional or accidental, could expose us to a risk of loss of data, litigation and possible liability. The global nature of our business exposes us to multiple risks. For 2005, approximately 47% of our revenues were derived from international operations. We expect that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to many risks and uncertainties, including: · difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in multiple countries; · tariff and international trade barriers; 21 · fewer legal protections for intellectual property and contract rights abroad; · different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; · government currency control and restrictions on repatriation of earnings; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates; and · political and economic changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future. Negative developments in any of these areas in one or more countries could result in a reduction in demand for our software products, services and hosted solutions, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, with regard to our international operations, we frequently enter into transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we incur operating expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This creates a foreign currency exchange risk for us that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may lose or delay revenues related to our hosted solutions and consulting services if our customers terminate or delay their contracts with us. Certain of our hosted electronic data capture and other service and consulting contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers at any time with limited notice. Entities engaged in clinical trials may terminate or delay a clinical trial for various reasons including the failure of the tested product to satisfy safety or efficacy requirements, unexpected or undesired clinical results, decisions to de-emphasize a particular product or forego a particular clinical trial, decisions to downsize clinical development programs, insufficient patient enrollment or investigator recruitment and production problems resulting in shortages of required clinical supplies. In the case of our hosted solutions, any termination or delay in the clinical trials would likely result in a consequential delay or termination in those customers’ service contracts. We have experienced terminations and delays of our customer service contracts in the past and expect to experience additional terminations and delays in the future. Because we do not recognize any portion of a hosted service contract’s revenue until the implementation cycle is complete, the termination or delay of our customers’ clinical trials could result in decreased or delayed revenues under these contracts which could materially harm our business. We could incur substantial costs resulting from product liability claims relating to our products or services or our customers’ use of our products or services. Any failure or errors in a customer’s clinical trial, post approval or adverse event reporting obligations caused or allegedly caused by our products or services could result in a claim for substantial damages against us by our customers or the clinical trial participants, regardless of our responsibility for the failure. Although we are generally entitled to indemnification under our customer contracts against claims brought against us by third parties arising out of our customers’ use of our products, we might find ourselves entangled in lawsuits against us that, even if unsuccessful, divert our resources and energy and adversely affect our business. Further, in the event we seek indemnification from a customer, we cannot assure you that a court will enforce our indemnification right if challenged by the customer obligated to indemnify us or that the customer will be able to fund any amounts for indemnification owed to us. We also cannot assure you that our existing general liability insurance coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. 22 We and our products and services could be subjected to governmental regulation, requiring us to incur significant compliance costs or to cease offering our products and services. The clinical trial process is subject to extensive and strict regulation by the FDA, as well as other regulatory authorities worldwide. Our electronic data capture, management and safety products and services could be subjected to state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that our products and service offerings will comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines as they develop. If our products or services fail to comply with any applicable government regulations or guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering our applicable products or services. Also, conforming our products and services to any applicable regulations and guidelines could substantially increase our operating expenses. Our business could be seriously harmed by our dependence on a limited number of suppliers. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for specific components of our software products and hosted solutions. We may increase our dependence on certain suppliers as we continue to develop and enhance our software and service solutions. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers leaves us vulnerable to having an inadequate supply of required components, price increases, delayed supplier performance and poor component quality. For instance, we rely on Oracle Corporation to supply the database component of our software solutions and on Equinix, Inc. to provide server facilities for our hosting services. Oracle Corporation also offers a software package that is competitive with our products and services. If we are unable to obtain components for our software solutions from third-party suppliers in the quantities and of the quality that we need, on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we may not be able to deliver our software products, services and hosted solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Moreover, delays or interruptions in our service, including without limitation delays or interruptions resulting from a change in suppliers, may reduce our revenue, cause customers to terminate their contracts and adversely affect our customer renewals. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our current needs for general corporate purposes. However, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: · hire additional personnel; · develop new or enhance existing software products, services and hosted solutions; · enhance our operating infrastructure; · acquire businesses or technologies; or · otherwise respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, when we desire them, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our software products, services and hosted solutions, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. 23 In the course of conducting our business, we possess or could be deemed to possess personal medical information in connection with the conduct of clinical trials, which if we fail to keep properly protected, could subject us to significant liability. Our software solutions are used to collect, manage and report information in connection with the conduct of clinical trial and safety monitoring activities. This information is or could be considered to be personal medical information of the clinical trial participants or patients. Regulation of the use and disclosure of personal medical information is complex and growing. Increased focus on individuals’ rights to confidentiality of their personal information, including personal medical information, could lead to an increase of existing and future legislative or regulatory initiatives giving direct legal remedies to individuals, including rights to damages, against entities deemed responsible for not adequately securing such personal information. In addition, courts may look to regulatory standards in identifying or applying a common law theory of liability, whether or not that law affords a private right of action. Since we receive and process personal information of clinical trial participants and patients from customers utilizing our hosted solutions, there is a risk that we could be liable if there were a breach of any obligation to a protected person under contract, standard of practice or regulatory requirement. If we fail to properly protect this personal information that is in our possession or deemed to be in our possession, we could be subjected to significant liability. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares in the public markets and subject us to securities class action litigation. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Market prices for securities of software, technology and health care companies have been volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly and, accordingly, may not be indicative of future trading prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; · financial results that are below estimate of such results; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; · litigation involving our company or our general industry or both; · the failure of any of our software products, services and hosted solutions to achieve or maintain commercial success; · success of competitive products and technologies; · sales or transfers of large blocks of stock by existing investors; · future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt by us, or other changes in our capital structure; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; 24 · additions or departures of key personnel; · investors’ general perception of us; and · changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for software, technology or health care stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated among a small number of stockholders and sales of a large block of which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. A relatively small number of our stockholders own large blocks of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that public sales of these shares or the availability of these shares for sale will have on the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders, and particularly our directors and officers, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. Our directors and management may be able to exercise significant control over our company. At December 31, 2005, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially controlled approximately 24% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. Delaware law and our corporate documents may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: · limitations on the removal of directors; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and · the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent 25 approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 