Item 1A. Risk Factors: The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Business cycles and other changes in demand could adversely impact our revenue and profits. Office furniture industry revenues are impacted by a variety of cyclical macroeconomic factors such as corporate profits, non-residential fixed investment, white-collar employment growth and commercial office construction and vacancy rates. Our product sales are directly tied to corporate capital spending, which is outside of our control. Geopolitical uncertainties, terrorist attacks, acts of war, natural disasters, other world events or combinations of such and other factors outside of our control could also have a significant effect on business confidence and the global economy and therefore, our business. Other demand influences on our industry include the evolving nature of collaborative and distributed work, technology changes, organizational changes, employee health and safety concerns and the globalization of companies. The trend towards off-shoring white collar jobs could cause our major customers in our core markets to shift employment growth to countries where our market share is not as strong. If we are unsuccessful in adapting our business to these changes and trends, our revenues and profits may be adversely impacted. The current deteriorating global economic conditions and financial markets may adversely affect our business. The recent distress in the financial market has resulted in extreme volatility in the capital markets and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance our access to liquidity will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. In addition, deterioration in our financial results could negatively impact our credit ratings. The tightening of the credit markets or a downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs and make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of securities. 7 Table of Contents In addition, the stress in the credit markets is having a significant negative impact on many businesses around the world. The current credit market could adversely impact our customers, dealers and suppliers as follows: • If our customers have difficulty in accessing the necessary liquidity for their operations, they may be unable to allocate capital for the purchase of our products and services, or they may be unable to pay amounts owed to our dealers or us. Additionally, our customers may seek to renegotiate contract prices as a result of the economic downturn and reduced capital spending. • We rely largely on a network of independent and company-owned dealers to market, deliver and install our products to customers. Customer concentration within some of our dealers is relatively high. If our dealers are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they may be unable to deliver required products and services and unable to pay amounts owed to us. • If our suppliers are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they may be unable to deliver raw materials or component parts and labor. In addition, some of our suppliers also serve the automotive industry. Any adverse impacts to the automotive industry, as a result of the economic slowdown or stress in the credit markets, could have a ripple effect on these suppliers which could adversely impact their ability to supply us necessary parts or labor. Any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to deliver products and services to our dealers and/or customers, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. In response to the recent economic downturn and declines in our revenue, in Q4 2009 we announced a number of reductions to the compensation and benefits of our North American workforce. We expect to reverse these reductions when general economic conditions improve. In addition, the decline in our revenue has had and will continue to have a negative impact on the amount of performance-based incentive compensation earned by our employees. While we do not expect these events will have a significant impact on our ability to retain our employees in the near-term, as the global economy improves, our ability to attract and retain appropriately-skilled employees may be negatively impacted if we do not offer market-competitive levels of compensation and benefits. We may not be able to successfully implement and manage our growth strategies. We believe our future success depends upon our ability to deliver a great experience to our customers, which includes innovative, well-made products and world-class processes. Our success relies in part on our research and development and engineering efforts, our ability to manufacture or source the products and customer acceptance of our products. As it relates to new markets, our success also depends on our ability to create and implement local supply chain and distribution strategies to reach these markets. The potential inability to successfully implement and manage our growth strategies could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Our growth strategies call for: • expansion in existing markets—by leveraging our current distribution to win new customers and more fully serve existing customers and their installed base of our products. • expansion in new adjacent markets—such as the mid-market segment of the office furniture market (firms with 50 to 250 employees), vertical markets such as healthcare and higher education and progressive live/work solutions through multiple or alternate channels. • expansion in emerging markets—growth in emerging markets is subject to the risk factors listed below relating to our global operations but also include other risks. As we hire new people and establish new processes in these locations, we are implementing our global business standards, but there is some risk our activities could expose us to liabilities. 8 Table of Contents • investments in new business development initiatives which, like many startups, could have a relatively high failure rate. We limit our investments in these initiatives and have governance procedures to contain the associated risks, but losses could result and may be material. • potential investments in acquisitions, joint venture alliances and additional channels of distribution. We may not be able to enter into acquisitions or joint venture arrangements on acceptable terms, and we may not successfully integrate these activities into our operations. We also may not be successful in implementing new distribution channels, and changes could create discord in our existing channels of distribution. The successful implementation of our growth strategies will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain an appropriately-skilled workforce. Competition for highly skilled and talented employees could result in higher compensation costs, difficulties in maintaining a capable workforce and leadership succession planning challenges. We could be adversely affected by changes in raw material and commodity costs. We procure raw materials from a significant number of sources within the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia. These raw materials are not rare or unique to our industry. The cost of steel, aluminum, wood, particleboard, petroleum-based products and other commodities, such as fuel and energy, has fluctuated significantly in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand. These changes can also lead to supply interruptions. Our gross margins could be affected if these types of costs continue to fluctuate. In the short term, rapid changes in raw material costs can be very difficult to offset with price increases because of contractual agreements we have entered into with our customers. It is difficult to find effective financial instruments to hedge against these risks. We may not be successful in passing along a portion of higher raw materials costs to our customers because of competitive pressures. Disruptions to the supply of raw materials, component parts and labor in our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our supply chain management. We are reliant on the timely flow of raw materials and components from third party suppliers and our own manufacturing operations. The flow of such materials and components may be affected by: • fluctuations in the availability and quality of the raw materials, • disruptions caused by labor activities, • the financial solvency of our suppliers, especially in light of the current limited credit environment, and • damage and loss or disruption of production from accidents, natural disasters and other causes. Our migration to a less vertically integrated manufacturing model has increased our reliance on a global network of suppliers. Any disruptions in the supply and delivery of component parts and products or deficiencies in our ability to develop and manage our network of suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive environment and may not be able to compete successfully. The office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of product. We compete on a variety of factors, including: brand recognition and reputation, price, lead time, delivery and service, insight from our research, product design and features, product quality, strength of dealers and other distributors and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers and facility managers. In the North America segment, our top competitors in our primary markets are Haworth, Inc., Herman Miller, Inc., HNI Corporation, Inc., Kimball International Inc. and Knoll, Inc., and our competitors 9 Table of Contents generally offer products which are similar to the products we offer. Some of our competitors may have lower cost structures and a broader offering of moderately priced products, potentially making it more difficult for us to compete in certain customer segments. In addition, such competition may prevent us from maintaining or raising the prices of our products in response to rising raw material prices and other inflationary pressures or in an industry downturn. Although we do not have major offshore competitors in our North America segment, there are other segments of the North America furniture industry, notably the residential furniture and made-to-stock office furniture segments sold through retailers, where lower-cost imports have become dominant. While customer lead time and customization requirements are currently inhibiting factors, it is possible we could see increased competition from imports in our core markets. In the International segment, we compete against a larger number of smaller size competitors. Our North America competitors also compete in some of our International markets, but their market share varies significantly by market. Most of our top competitors have strong relationships with their existing customers that can be a source of significant future sales through repeat and expansion orders. These competitors manufacture products with strong acceptance in the marketplace and can develop products that could have a competitive advantage over Steelcase products. In certain markets, we compete using an import model which requires longer lead times than local competitors with domestic supply chains, and poses foreign currency exposures that we may not be able to hedge entirely. We also compete in adjacent markets such as healthcare and higher education where competition is more fragmented. We could face increased competition from incumbent players as well as difficulty in penetrating related channels of distribution which could impact our success in these markets. Our continued success depends upon many things, including our ability to continue to manufacture and market high quality, high performance products at competitive prices and our ability to evolve our business model and implement world-class processes to enable us to effectively compete in the office furniture and adjacent industries. Our success is also dependent on our ability to sustain our positive brand reputation and recognition among existing and potential customers and use our brand and our trademarks effectively as we enter new markets. Our global operations subject us to risks that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices and manufacturing facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our global operations are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, design, develop or sell products in particular countries, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • political, social and economic conditions, • intellectual property protection, • differing employment practices and labor issues, • local business and cultural factors that differ from our global business standards and practices, • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions, • restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings, and • natural disasters, security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest, and global health issues. In the U.S. and most countries in Europe, our revenue and costs are typically in the same currency. However, there are some situations where we export and import products in different currencies. We also may hold assets, such as equity investments, real estate investments and cash balances, or carry 10 Table of Contents liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business, and changes in currency controls with respect to such countries, could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and changes to U.S. and international monetary policies may also negatively impact our revenue. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely largely on a network of independent and company-owned dealers to market, deliver and install our products to customers. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with dealers. From time to time, an individual dealer or Steelcase may choose to terminate the relationship, or the dealership could face financial difficulty leading to failure or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. In addition, our competitors could engage in a strategy to attempt to acquire or convert a number of our dealers to carry their products. We do not believe our business is dependent on any single dealer, the loss of which would have a sustained material adverse effect upon our business. However, temporary disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could temporarily have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to make financial investments in the dealership, reducing the risk of disruption, but increasing our financial exposure. Establishing new dealers in a market can take considerable time and resources. A portion of our distribution network is company-owned because of the need for us to make financial investments in dealerships in order to preserve our market share and profitability in the affected regions. In certain international markets, we have adopted a direct model of distribution through which we establish company-owned sales and service capabilities. If we are not able to effectively manage these businesses, they could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our direct-sale and owned-dealer models sell non-Steelcase products where product gaps exist. These models involve increased operational risk, the risk of conflict with other distribution channels and the risk we will not be able to compete effectively to win business in those markets because of a more limited breadth of product offering than a dealer who carries multiple lines of products. We could be adversely affected by product defects. Product defects can occur within our own product development and manufacturing processes or through our increasing reliance on third parties for product development and manufacturing activities. Our migration to a less vertically integrated manufacturing model has increased our reliance on a global network of suppliers, which subjects us to higher levels of risk associated with maintaining acceptable quality levels. We incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product recall and retrofit costs and product liability costs. The amount of our product defect expenses relative to product sales varies from time to time and could increase in the future. We maintain a reserve for our product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, but our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in a need to increase our accruals for warranty charges. In addition, the reputation of our brands may be diminished by product defects and recalls. We purchase insurance coverage to reduce our exposure to significant levels of product liability claims and maintain a reserve for our self-insured losses based upon estimates of the aggregate liability using claims experience and actuarial assumptions. Any significant increase in the rate of our product defect expenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents There may be significant limitations to our utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We have significant deferred tax asset values related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) primarily in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations in the applicable jurisdiction or implement tax, business or other planning strategies to fully utilize our NOLs. We have NOLs in various currencies that are also subject to foreign exchange risk, which could reduce the amount we will ultimately realize. Additionally, future changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws may limit our ability to fully utilize our NOLs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 