Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business routinely encounters and addresses risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements under "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above. Regulatory, Product Liability and Insurance Risks Our products are subject to government regulation, both in the United States and abroad, which could increase our costs significantly and limit or prevent the sale of our products. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the FDA and FTC, and we are also subject to the Food Standards Agency and the Department of Health in the United Kingdom and similar regulators in Norway. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate nutritional supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state's regulations. In markets outside the United States, we are usually required to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country's ministry of health or comparable agency, as well as labeling and packaging regulations, all of which vary from country to country. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including: •requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards, •the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products, •additional record keeping, •expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products, •expanded or different labeling, •adverse event tracking and reporting and •additional scientific substantiation. 11 Table of Contents Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may experience product liability claims and litigation to prosecute such claims, and although we maintain product liability insurance, which we believe to be adequate for our needs, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage. As a manufacturer and a distributor of products for human consumption, we experience product liability claims and litigation to prosecute such claims. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of these products involves the risk of injury to consumers as a result of tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. We carry insurance coverage in the types and amounts that we consider reasonably adequate to cover the risks we face. If insurance coverage is inadequate or unavailable or premium costs continue to rise, we may face additional claims not covered by insurance, and claims that exceed coverage limits or that are not covered could have a material adverse effect on us. Market and Channel Risks Our success is linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of that market could have a material adverse effect on us. Some manufacturers in our industry have experienced a slow-down in sales of nutritional supplements. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative. Because a substantial majority of our sales are to or through health food stores, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of this channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the channel. Over 85% of our sales are in the United States. In this market, we sell our products primarily to or through health food stores. Because of this, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of that channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the channel. There are some large chains of health food stores, such as Whole Foods and Vitamin Shoppe, but most health food stores are individual stores or very small chains. We rely on these health food stores to purchase, market, and sell our products. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on the growth and success of the Healthy Foods Channel, which is outside our control. There can be no assurance that the Healthy Foods Channel will be able to grow or prosper as it faces price and service pressure from other channels, including the mass market. There can be no assurance that retailers in the Healthy Foods Channel, in the aggregate, will respond or continue to respond to our stated loyalty to this channel. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies in our industry, and adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow our business. Decisions about purchasing made by consumers of our products may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or 12 Table of Contents products or our industry in general. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products in general or of other companies or our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to nutritional supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry and/or the healthy foods channel. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. We face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and that possess greater resources than we do, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to maintain sufficient market share to sustain profitability. Numerous manufacturers and retailers compete actively for consumers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutritional supplements can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution. These channels include mass market retail stores and the Internet. Because these markets generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors could enter the market at any time. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. Additional national or international companies may seek in the future to enter or to increase their presence in the healthy foods channel or the vitamin, mineral supplement market. Increased competition in either or both could have a material adverse effect on us. The nutritional supplement industry increasingly relies on intellectual property rights and although we seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, which claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Recently it has become more and more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. We seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. These developments could prevent us from offering or supplying competitive products or ingredients in the marketplace. They could also result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights. If an infringement claim is asserted or litigation is pursued, we may be required to obtain a license of rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate our manufacturing and marketing of our products that are alleged to have infringed. Litigation with respect to such matters could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may be affected adversely by increased utility and fuel costs. Increasing fuel costs may affect our results of operations adversely in that consumer traffic to health and natural food stores may be reduced and the costs of our sales may increase as we incur fuel costs in connection with our manufacturing operations and the transportation of goods from our warehouse and distribution facilities to health and natural food stores. Also, high oil costs can affect the cost of our raw materials and components and the competitive environment in which we operate may limit our ability to recover higher costs resulting from rising fuel prices. Adverse economic conditions may harm our business. Inflation or other changes in economic conditions that affect demand for nutritional supplements could adversely affect our revenue. 13 Table of Contents Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, each of which could have a material negative effect on the demand for our products. Other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. Business Strategy and Operational Risks If we are unable to retain key personnel, our ability to manage our business effectively and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Key management employees include Frank W. Gay II, Bruce R. Hough, Jeffrey A. Hinrichs, Gary M. Hume, Stanley E. Soper, Cory J. McQueen, Christopher B. Neuberger, Daren P. Peterson, Andrew W. Seelos and certain other employees. These key management employees are primarily responsible for our day-to-day operations, and we believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain them and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. We do not have employment agreements with any of our key management employees. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our key management employees or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a part of our business strategy, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, gaining shelf-space and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions when attractive opportunities arise. Acquiring additional businesses and the implementation of other elements of our business strategy are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Some of these factors are within our control and some are outside our control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: •any acquisition may result in significant expenditures of cash, stock and/or management resources, •acquired businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations, •we may encounter difficulties and costs with the integration of the acquired businesses, •management's attention may be diverted from other aspects of our business, •we may face unexpected problems entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience, •we may lose key employees of acquired or existing businesses, •we may incur liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses, •we may be unable to obtain financing and •we may incur indebtedness or issue additional capital stock which could be dilutive to holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisitions or that any acquisitions which are consummated will prove to be successful. There can be no assurance that we can successfully execute all aspects of our business strategy. 14 Table of Contents Because we depend on outside suppliers with whom we do not have long-term agreements for raw materials, we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices or at all, which could result in product shortages and back orders for our products, with a resulting loss of net sales and profitability. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. We also rely on third-party co-packers for some of our products. We have few agreements for the continued supply of these materials and products. A number of our products contain one or more ingredients that may only be available from a single source or supplier. Any of our suppliers could discontinue selling to us at any time. Our suppliers or government regulators may interpret new regulations (including GMP regulations) in such a way as to cause a disruption in our supply chain as these parties undertake increased scrutiny of raw materials and components of raw materials and products, causing certain suppliers or us to discontinue, change or suspend the sale of certain ingredients or components. Although we believe that we could establish alternate sources for most of these materials, any delay in locating and establishing relationships with other sources could result in product shortages and back orders for the products, with a resulting loss of net sales and profitability. We are also subject to delays associated with raw materials. These can be caused by conditions not within our control, including: •weather, •crop conditions, •transportation interruptions, •strikes by supplier employees and •natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We acquire many ingredients from suppliers outside of the United States. Purchasing these ingredients is subject to the risks generally associated with importing raw materials from other countries, including, among other factors, delays in shipments, changes in economic and political conditions, quality assurance, tariffs, trade disputes and foreign currency fluctuations. These factors could result in a delay in or disruption of the supply of certain raw materials. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology and any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected in order to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases and incentive payments, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we manufacture approximately 70% of our products, we are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA. We are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities in Ogden, Utah as well as Phoenix, Arizona. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA. There can be no assurance that 15 Table of Contents the occurrence of these or any other operational problems at our facility would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others in the future. The possibility of such litigation, and its timing, is in large part outside our control. While none of the current lawsuits in which we are involved are reasonably estimable to be material as of the date of this filing, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have material adverse effects on us. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could harm our business reputation and cause our stock price to decline. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. Our results of operations may be materially impacted if we are required to record a significant charge due to an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs and the lack of adequate financing could negatively impact our business. There is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility, allowing access to additional credit features and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments. The lenders on our credit facility are Rabobank International and Wells Fargo. If our lenders failed to honor their legal commitments under our credit facility, it could be difficult in this environment to replace our credit facility on similar terms. Furthermore, we may be unable to renegotiate our existing credit facility or obtain replacement or additional financing. Stock Market Risks The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: •quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, •material announcements by us or our competitors, •governmental regulatory action, •negative or positive publicity involving us or the nutritional supplement industry generally, •general economic downturns, •announcements by official or unofficial health and medical authorities, 16 Table of Contents •consumer preferences generally or •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many nutritional supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of these companies. Stock markets experienced unprecedented volatility in connection with the recent credit crisis. General economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations in the United States or abroad, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock in the future. In addition, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 