Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in Wausau Paper stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports that we file from time to time with the SEC. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the following risks occur. In that case, the trading price of our common stock may decline. In addition to the following risk factors, you should carefully review the cautionary statement made under “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7. The segments of the paper industry in which we operate are highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our sales and profitability. We compete in different markets within the paper industry on the basis of the quality of our products, customer service, product development activities, price, and distribution. All of our markets are highly competitive. Our competitors vary in size, and many have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In some of our markets, the industry’s capacity to make products exceeds current demand levels. Competitive conditions in some of our segments have caused us to incur lower net selling prices and reduced gross margins and net earnings. These conditions may continue indefinitely. See Item 1 of this report for information regarding the number and identities of our competitors in our operating segments. See Item 7 concerning recent competitive conditions in the markets we serve. As a producer of specialty papers, we target markets in which our relative size, equipment and product development capabilities, and customer service emphasis provide us a competitive advantage. We work to limit our exposure to commodity products where larger competitors with more efficient equipment generally have production cost advantages. Recent improvements in some commodity products have narrowed the quality differential between these products and our specialty products. Changes of this nature could further “commoditize” and reduce the size of our target markets. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected by downturns in the target markets that we serve or reduced demand for the types of products we sell. Demand for our products is often affected by general economic conditions as well as product-use trends in our target markets. These changes may result in decreased demand for our products. For example, our specialty products business usually declines during periods of economic slowdowns as industrial and housing activity is curtailed. Also, demand for uncoated free-sheet papers, the broad market category in which Printing & Writing competes, has declined in eight of the last ten years due to such factors as general economic conditions, office employment trends, and the increased use of electronic communications. There may be periods during which 8 demand for our products is insufficient to enable us to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. The occurrence of these conditions is beyond our ability to control and, when they occur, they may have a significant impact on our sales and results of operations. Changes within the paper industry may adversely affect our financial performance. Changes in the identity, ownership structure, and strategic goals of our competitors and the emergence of new competitors in our target markets may harm our financial performance. New competitors may include foreign-based companies and commodity-based domestic producers who could enter our specialty markets if they are unable to compete in their traditional markets. The paper industry has also experienced consolidation of producers and distribution channels. Further consolidation could unite other producers with distribution channels through which we currently sell, limiting access to our target markets. The cost of raw materials and energy used to manufacture our products could increase. Raw materials and packaging comprise approximately 55% of our cost of sales, with market pulp, purchased parent rolls, and wastepaper accounting for approximately three-quarters of this total. Raw material prices will change based on worldwide supply and demand. Pulp price changes can occur due to worldwide consumption levels of pulp, pulp production capacity, expansions or curtailments, inventory building or depletion, and pulp producer cost changes related to wood availability, environmental issues, or other variables. We purchase the majority of our energy needs. Energy costs may fluctuate significantly due to increased worldwide consumption levels, disruptions in supply due to natural catastrophes or political turmoil, or decreased production capacity. We may not be able to pass increased cost for raw materials or energy to our customers if the market or existing agreements with our customers do not allow us to raise the prices of our finished products. Even if we are able to pass through increased cost of raw materials or energy, the resulting increase in the selling prices for our products could reduce the volume of products we sell and decrease our revenues. While we may try, from time to time, to hedge against price increases, we may not be successful in doing so. In 2010, we expect to purchase approximately 40%, or 80,000, of our towel and tissue parent roll consumption from other producers in the paper industry. A disruption in supply of these parent rolls could have an adverse affect on our ability to meet demand for our products and a significant increase in the cost of these parent rolls could unfavorably impact profitability. The failure to develop new products could reduce the overall demand for our products and our net income. We have a goal of generating at least 25% of our annual revenue from products introduced within the previous three years. Our sales volume and net earnings may decrease if we do not satisfy new customer product preferences or fail to meet new technology demands of our customers. 9 If we fail to maintain satisfactory relationships with our larger customers, our business may be harmed. We do not have long-term, fixed quantity supply agreements with our customers. Due to competition or other factors we may lose business from our customers, either partially or completely. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, or a substantial reduction of orders by any of our significant customers, could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, our customers may vary their order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. In the event we lose any of our larger customers, we may not be able to replace that revenue source, which could harm our financial results. We may be unable to maintain our relationships with organized labor unions. The majority of our hourly production workforce is represented by labor unions. While we believe we enjoy satisfactory relationships with all of the labor organizations that represent our employees, we cannot guarantee that labor-related disputes will not arise. Labor disputes could result in disruptions in production and could also cause increases in production costs, which could damage our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. The costs of complying with environmental regulations may increase substantially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern discharges into the environment and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Environmental laws impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. We will continue to incur substantial capital and operating expenses in order to comply with current law. Any changes in these laws or their interpretation by government agencies or the courts may significantly increase our capital expenditures and operating expenses and decrease the amount of funds available for investment in other areas of operation. In addition, we may be required to eliminate or mitigate any adverse effects on the environment caused by the release of hazardous materials, whether or not we had knowledge of, or were responsible for, such release. We may also incur liability for personal injury and property damages as a result of discharges into the environment. The costs of remediation of known environmental sites, such as described in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, may exceed current estimates and there may be additional sites not now known to us that may require significant remediation expenses in the future. If costs or liabilities related to environmental compliance increase significantly, our consolidated financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or secure sufficient credit to simultaneously fund our operations, finance capital expenditures, and satisfy other obligations. Our business is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for equipment maintenance and new or enhanced equipment for environmental compliance matters, and to support our business strategies. We expect to meet all of our near- and longer-term cash needs from a combination of operating cash flow, cash and cash equivalents, execution of our 10 previously announced timberland sales program, our existing credit facility or other bank lines of credit, and other long-term debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from these sources or if we are unable to secure needed credit due to our performance or tighter credit markets, we could be unable to meet our near- and longer-term cash needs. If we have a catastrophic loss or unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities, we could suffer significant lost production and/or cost increases. Our paper making and converting facilities and distribution warehouses may suffer catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, mechanical failure, or other natural or man-made events. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, delay or reduce shipments, reduce revenue, and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. These expenses and losses may not be adequately covered by property or business interruption insurance. Even if covered by insurance, our inability to deliver our products to customers, even on a short-term basis, may cause us to lose market share on a more permanent basis. Our acquisitions, facility closings, or other structural changes may result in financial results that are different than expected. We have closed or disposed of certain businesses and assets in response to changes in market conditions or strategic plans. In response to dramatically increased input costs and difficult market conditions, in December 2008 we permanently shut down one of the two paper machines at our Specialty Products’ mill in Jay, Maine, and subsequently closed the paper mill during the second quarter of 2009. In October 2007, we announced a three-part recovery plan to improve profitability of our Printing & Writing business segment, which included the closure of the Groveton, New Hampshire facility, a sales and marketing effort focused on core products and brands, and strategic investment alternatives to enhance capabilities and reduce costs. This recovery plan also included the relocation of certain converting equipment and distribution capacity that had historically existed at our Appleton, Wisconsin, facility. The operations at the Appleton, Wisconsin, facility ceased in 2009. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of these transactions, closings, and other strategic plans, our consolidated financial position, liquidity, and results of operations could be negatively impacted. In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to the possible acquisition of additional facilities and may consider, from time to time, the acquisition of another business. We also continually review and may implement structural changes designed to improve our operations or to reflect anticipated changes in long-term market conditions. As a result of recent or similar future transactions, our financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations in a given quarter, or over the long term. We may have difficulty integrating the acquisition of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or p roduct lines to realize the value from expected synergies. We may also have difficulty integrating a new manufacturing facility into current operations. These difficulties can arise for a variety of reasons, including, the size and complexity of the acquisition, the retention of key employees, the retention of key customers, and the ability to integrate manufacturing systems and transfer our corporate culture to new employees and facilities. 11 If we incur a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC (collectively, “Section 404”) require us to assess and report on our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. In our most recent report under Section 404, which is included in Item 8 of this report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Our auditors have concurred with that assessment. If we should develop a material weakness in our control over financial reporting, it could have a material adverse effect on the company. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by management or employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. If a material weakness occurs, it could adversely affect our financial reporting process and our financial statements. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and our stock price. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in financial accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results in the future or require us to restate results we have already reported. New financial accounting standards or interpretations may require us to recognize additional expenses in the future or change the manner in which amounts currently recognized are determined. Such additional expense recognition may result in lower reported net earnings or increased balance sheet liabilities, either of which may reduce the market price of our common stock or affect our compliance with various covenants relating to our indebtedness. We may incur significant, unexpected liabilities from current or future claims, including matters now threatened or in litigation. We deal with claims that are threatened or made by third parties in the normal course of our business. Some claims result in formal administrative or legal proceedings in which the amounts claimed are significant. We assess each claim and make a judgment whether the claim will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations. Claims that we believe could have material adverse effect if not resolved in our favor, or other claims that we believe to be significant, are discussed in Item 3 of this report and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the most recent fiscal year, which are included in Item 8 of this report. Our reports do not disclose or discuss all claims of which we are aware. Our assessment of the materiality of any claim is based upon the amount involved, the underlying facts, and our assessment of the likelihood of a material a dverse outcome. If our assessment of a claim as immaterial is not correct, we may not have made adequate provision for such loss and our consolidated financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be harmed. 12 We may become involved in claims concerning intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or related expenses in defending our own intellectual property rights or defending claims that we infringed the rights of others. None of our product trademarks or patents is, in itself, considered to be material to our business. However, taken together, we consider our intellectual property to be a material asset. We may lose market share and suffer a decline in our revenue and net earnings if we cannot successfully defend one or more trademarks or patents. We do not believe that any of our products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our products or services. In that event, we may be subject to significant claims for damages. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into license agreements, which would reduce our operating margins, or in some cases, we may not be able to obtain license agreements on terms acceptable to us. Some anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Wisconsin law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and our shareholders rights plan, could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of Wausau Paper that is deemed undesirable by our board of directors. These include provisions that: · require that, in many potential takeover situations, rights issued under our shareholder rights plan become exercisable to purchase our common stock and potentially other securities at a price substantially discounted from the then applicable market price; · permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock with rights and preferences designated by our board, including stock with voting, liquidation, dividend, and other rights superior to our common stock; · impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings; · divide our board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered terms; · allow the board of directors to fill any vacancies on our board; · under our articles of incorporation, prohibit us from entering into a “business combination” transaction with any person who acquires 10% of our voting stock at any time (an “interested 10% shareholder”) unless certain “fair price” requirements are met or, in the alternative, either (a) two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote that are not held by the interested shareholder are voted for the transaction, or (b) the board of directors has approved the transaction; 13 · under Wisconsin law, require that two-thirds of our voting stock must vote to approve any merger with another corporation, a share exchange, or the sale of substantially all of our assets; · under Wisconsin law, prohibit us from entering into a “business combination” transaction with an interested 10% shareholder for a period of three years from the date such person makes such an acquisition unless our board of directors had approved the business combination or the acquisition of shares before the date of the acquisition; · under Wisconsin law, prohibit us from entering into a “business combination” transaction with an interested 10% shareholder at any time after a period of three years from the date of becoming an interested 10% shareholder unless our board of directors had approved the acquisition of shares before the date of the acquisition, the business combination meets certain “fair price” requirements, or the business combination is approved by a majority of the shares entitled to vote which are not beneficially owned by the interested 10% shareholder; · under Wisconsin law, reduce the voting power of any shares held by a shareholder who holds in excess of 20% of the shares outstanding to 10% of the full voting power of the excess shares; and · require a vote by the holders of four-fifths of our outstanding shares to amend the provisions of our articles or bylaws described above. These provisions and similar provisions that could apply to us in the future may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price, or otherwise adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 14 