Risk Factors.” We are exposed to a number of risks from operating in developing countries. We conduct business in a number of developing countries around the world. The risks associated with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices, nationalization, social, political and economic instability, increased currency exchange risk and currency repatriation restrictions, among other risks. We may not be able to insure or hedge against these risks. In addition, commercial laws and regulations which may apply in many of these countries can be vague, arbitrary, contradictory, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. It is, therefore, difficult to determine with certainty at all times the exact requirements of these laws and regulations. Non-compliance, true or alleged, with applicable laws in developing countries could have a negative impact on our prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. On December 14, 2005, we obtained our first ratings of BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s, and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). Any ratings downgrade may adversely affect our ability to access capital on the same terms as we have currently and would likely result in higher interest rates on any future indebtedness. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and interest rate and market risk may negatively affect our financial results. We hold assets and liabilities, earn income and pay expenses of our subsidiaries in a variety of currencies. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in euros. Therefore, when we prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses in currencies other than the euro into euros at then-applicable exchange rates. Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the euro will affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. In this regard, an increase in the value of the euro relative to other currencies may result in a decline in the reported value, in euros, of our interests held in those currencies. We are also subject to interest rate risk. See Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”, Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and notes 22 and 26 of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for additional information related to our exposure to exchange rate and other market risks. 1 The operating margin rate is defined as operating margin divided by revenue, in each case as determined under currently applicable IFRS. 6 Table of Contents The trading price of our ADSs and dividends paid on our ADSs may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euros into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting euros into U.S. dollars may affect the value of our ADSs. Specifically, as the relative value of the euro against the U.S. dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: • the U.S. dollar equivalent of the euro trading prices of our ordinary shares on Euronext, which may consequently cause the trading price of our ADSs in the United States to also decline; • the U.S. dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of our ADSs would receive upon the sale in France of any of our ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary arrangement; and • the U.S. dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in euros on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs. It may not be possible for shareholders to effect service of legal process, enforce judgments of courts outside of France or bring actions based on securities laws of jurisdictions other than France against Publicis, its executive officers or members of its supervisory or management boards. Publicis and a majority of its executive officers and members of its supervisory and management boards are residents of France and other countries other than the United States. In addition, many of the assets of Publicis and such persons are located in whole or in substantial part outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of legal process within the United States upon us or most of such persons, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be enforceable in French courts. As a result, our shareholders who obtain a judgment against us or such persons in the United States may not be able to require us or such persons to pay the amount of the judgment. The ability of holders of our ADSs to influence the governance of our company may be limited. Holders of our ADSs may not have the same ability to influence the governance of our company as shareholders in some U.S. companies would. For example, holders of our ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, the depositary’s liability to holders of our ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions is limited by contract. Some provisions of French law and our statuts (by-laws) could have anti-takeover effects. French law requires any person who acquires more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, one-third, one-half, two-thirds, 90% or 95% of our outstanding shares or voting rights to inform us within 5 days of crossing the threshold percentage. A person acquiring more than 10% or 20% of our share capital or voting rights must include in the report a statement of the person’s intentions relating to future acquisitions or participation in the management of our company for the following 12-month period. Shareholders who fail to comply with these requirements may be deprived of voting rights for a period of up to five years and may, in some cases, be subject to criminal fines. In addition, our statuts (by-laws) provides double voting rights for shares owned by any shareholder in registered form for at least two years. Our statuts further provide that any person who acquires or disposes of more than 1% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must inform us within 15 days of crossing the threshold percentage and that we may require a corporate entity holding shares representing more than 2.5% of our share capital or voting rights to disclose to us the identity of all persons holding, directly or indirectly, more than one-third of the share capital or voting rights of that entity. Shareholders who fail to comply with these requirements may be deprived of voting rights. Finally, our shareholders have authorized our management board to increase our capital in response to a third-party tender offer for our shares. These circumstances could have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change in control of our company without the consent of our current management. Giving effect to the provisions of our statuts that gives double voting 7 Table of Contents rights to shares owned by the same shareholder in registered form for at least two years, we estimate that the chairperson of our supervisory board, Ms. Elisabeth Badinter, owns approximately 17.2% of the voting power of our company. We are subject to corporate disclosure standards that are less demanding than those applicable to some U.S. companies. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholders’ meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of non-U.S. issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about our company than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the U.S. 