ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Business Risk Factors Joint Venture with Carrier Corporation On July 1, 2009, we completed the formation of Carrier Enterprise to distribute Carrier, Bryant and Payne products throughout the U.S. Sunbelt, Latin America and the Caribbean. Carrier Enterprise operates 110 locations in 20 states and Puerto Rico and serves over 19,000 air conditioning and heating contractors. In the formation of the joint venture, Carrier contributed 95 locations in the U.S. Sunbelt and Puerto Rico and the export division located in Miami, Florida and we contributed 15 locations that currently distribute Carrier, Bryant and Payne products. We purchased a 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise for consideration of $172.0 million and a fair value of $181.5 million with options to purchase up to an additional 20% interest from Carrier (10% beginning in July 2012 and an additional 10% in July 2014). We issued 3,080,469 shares of our common stock on July 1, 2009, having a fair value of $151.1 million to Carrier, which diluted our existing shareholders’ ownership interest, and contributed 15 locations that presently sell Carrier-manufactured products as consideration for our 60% controlling interest in Carrier Enterprise. The formation of Carrier Enterprise involves a number of risks, including the following: • its successful operation and/or integration; • dependence on one key supplier and 8 Table of Contents • possible loss of key employees and/or customer relationships. Continuing Decline in Economic Conditions The global and U.S. economy has experienced a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. We rely on the capital markets as well as the credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from our operations. Long-term disruptions in the capital and credit market, similar to those that have been experienced during 2008 and 2009 could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include reducing or eliminating dividend payments, deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating discretionary uses of cash. The decline in economic conditions and lack of availability of business and consumer credit could have an adverse effect on our business. Capital and credit market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Additionally, if financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Supplier Concentration We maintain distribution agreements with our key equipment suppliers, either on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis, for terms generally ranging from one to ten years. Certain of the distribution agreements contain provisions that restrict or limit the sale of competitive products in the markets served. Other than the markets where such restrictions and limitations may apply, we may distribute other manufacturers’ lines of air conditioning or heating equipment. As a result of the formation of a joint venture with Carrier, our purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 41% of all purchases made during 2009. Significant relationships currently exist with six of the seven; and purchases from these equipment suppliers, including Carrier, comprised 66% of all purchases made in 2009. Given the significant concentration of our supply chain, particularly with Carrier, any significant interruption by the manufacturers or a termination of a distribution agreement could temporarily disrupt the operations of certain subsidiaries. Future results of operations are also materially dependent upon the continued market acceptance of these manufacturers’ products and their ability to continue to manufacture products that comply with laws relating to environmental and efficiency standards. Risks Inherent in Acquisitions As part of our strategy, we intend to pursue additional acquisitions of complementary businesses. If we complete future acquisitions, we may be required to incur or assume additional debt and/or issue additional shares of our common stock as consideration, which will dilute our existing shareholder’s ownership interest and may affect our results of operations. Growth through acquisitions involves a number of risks, including the following: • the ability to identify and consummate complementary acquisition candidates; • the successful operation and/or integration of acquired companies in an effective manner; • diversion of management’s attention from other daily functions; • issuance by us of equity securities that would dilute ownership of our existing shareholders; • incurrence and/or assumption of significant debt and contingent liabilities; and • possible loss of key employees and/or customer relationships of the acquired companies. Competition We operate in highly competitive environments. We compete with a number of distributors and also with several air conditioning and heating equipment manufacturers that distribute a significant portion of their products through their own distribution organizations in certain markets. Competition within any given geographic market is based upon product availability, customer service, price and quality. Competitive pressures or other factors could cause our products or services to lose market acceptance or result in significant price erosion, all of which would have a material adverse effect on profitability. 9 Table of Contents Seasonality Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment and parts and supplies have historically been seasonal. Furthermore, profitability can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on the severity or mildness of weather patterns during summer or winter selling seasons. Demand related to the residential central air conditioning replacement market is highest in the second and third quarters with demand for heating equipment usually highest in the fourth quarter. Demand related to the new construction sectors throughout most of the markets is fairly even during the year except for dependence on housing completions and related weather and economic conditions. Dependence on Key Personnel We are highly dependent on the skills, experience and services of key personnel. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our potential growth and expansion are expected to place increased demands on our management skills and resources. Therefore, our success also depends upon our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced management personnel. Employment and retention of qualified personnel is important due to the competitive nature of our industry. General Risk Factors Goodwill and Intangibles At December 31, 2009, goodwill and intangibles represented approximately 31% of total assets. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are no longer amortized and are subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair value based approach. The identification and measurement of impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit. Accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. The estimates of fair value of the reporting unit are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment and incorporate management assumptions about expected future cash flows and contemplate other valuation techniques. Future cash flows can be affected by changes in the industry, a declining economic environment or market conditions. The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles is evaluated at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. Although no impairment has been recorded to date, there can be no assurances that future impairments will not occur. Risks Related to Insurance Coverage We carry general liability, comprehensive property damage, workers’ compensation, health benefits and other insurance coverage that management considers adequate for the protection of its assets and operations. There can be no assurance, however, that the coverage limits of such policies will be adequate to cover losses and expenses for lawsuits brought or which may be brought against us. A loss in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and/or profitability. Certain self-insurance risks for casualty insurance programs and health benefits are retained and reserves are established based on claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not yet reported. Assurance cannot be provided that actual claims will not exceed present estimates. Exposure to catastrophic losses has been limited by maintaining excess and aggregate liability coverage and implementing loss control programs. Control by Existing Shareholder As of December 31, 2009, Albert H. Nahmad, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and a limited partnership controlled by him, collectively had beneficial ownership of approximately 54% of the combined voting power of the outstanding Common stock and Class B common stock. Based on Mr. Nahmad’s stock ownership and the stock ownership of the limited partnership controlled by him, Mr. Nahmad has the voting power to elect all but three members of the nine-person Board of Directors and to control most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Information about Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains or incorporates by reference statements that are not historical in nature and that are intended to be, and are hereby identified as, “forward-looking statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding, among other items, (i) business and acquisition strategies, (ii) potential acquisitions, (iii) financing plans and (iv) industry, demographic and other trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations. These forward-looking statements are based largely on management’s current expectations and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances, certain of which are beyond their control. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including: • general economic conditions; 10 Table of Contents • competitive factors within the HVAC/R industry; • effects of supplier concentration; • fluctuations in certain commodity costs; • consumer spending; • consumer debt levels; • new housing starts and completions; • capital spending in the commercial construction market; • access to liquidity needed for operations; • seasonal nature of product sales; • weather conditions; • insurance coverage risks; • federal, state and local regulations impacting our industry and products; • prevailing interest rates; and • the continued viability of our business strategy. In light of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking information contained herein will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that the information will have the expected consequences or effects on Watsco or its business or operations. A discussion of certain of these risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such forward-looking statements is included in our 2009 Annual Report in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which section has been incorporated in the Form 10-K by reference. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. Watsco assumes no obligation to update forward-looking information or the discussion of such risks and uncertainties to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 