Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections and the beliefs and assumptions of management including, without limitation, our expectations with regard to the industry’s rapid technological change and exposure to inventory obsolescence, availability and allocations of goods, reliance on vendor support and relationships, competitive risks, pricing risks, and the overall level of economic activity and the level of business investment in information technology products. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “continue,” or similar terms, variations of such terms, or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations would likely suffer. The economic instability and the unrest in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and reduce our operating results. Our business has been affected by changes in economic conditions that are outside of our control, including reductions in business investment, loss of consumer confidence, and fiscal uncertainty at both federal and state government levels. Although businesses have increased their IT spending in recent years, considerable uncertainty exists regarding expected economic conditions, and future delays or reductions in IT spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently on our financial results. It is difficult to predict how long the economic instability and unrest in the financial markets will continue, the extent, if any, to which they may deteriorate, and to which our business may be adversely affected. However, if IT spending should again decline, we are likely to experience an adverse impact, which may be material on our business and our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We have experienced variability in sales, and there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitable operations. Several factors have caused our results of operations to fluctuate and we expect some of these fluctuations to continue on a quarterly basis. Causes of these fluctuations include: • shifts in customer demand that affect our distribution models, including demand for total solutions; • loss of customers to competitors; • industry shipments of new products or upgrades; • changes in overall demand and timing of product shipments related to government spending; • changes in vendor distribution of products; • changes in our product offerings and in merchandise returns; • the timing of new merchandise and catalog offerings; • fluctuations in shipping, printing, postage, and paper costs; • fluctuations in response rates; and • adverse weather conditions that affect response, distribution, or shipping. Our results also may vary based on our ability to manage personnel levels in response to fluctuations in revenue. We base personnel levels and other operating expenditures on sales forecasts. If our revenues do not meet anticipated levels in the future, we may not be able to reduce our staffing levels and operating expenses in a timely manner to avoid significant losses from operations. We face many competitive risks. The direct marketing industry and the computer products retail business, in particular, are highly competitive. We compete with other direct marketers of hardware and software and computer related products, including CDW Corporation and Insight Enterprises, Inc., who are much larger than we are. Certain hardware and software vendors, such as Apple, Dell, Lenovo, and HP, who provide products to us, also sell their products directly to end users through their own catalogs, stores, and via the Internet. We also compete with computer retail stores and websites, who are increasingly selling to business customers and may become a significant competitor. We compete not only for customers, but also for advertising support from personal computer product manufacturers. Some of our competitors have larger customer bases and greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors offer a wider range of products and services than we do and may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition, engage in more extensive promotional activities, and adopt pricing policies that are more aggressive than ours. We expect competition to increase as retailers and direct marketers who have not traditionally sold computers and related products enter the industry. In addition, product resellers and direct marketers are combining operations or acquiring or merging with other resellers and direct marketers to increase efficiency. Moreover, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and services. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. We cannot provide assurance that we can continue to compete effectively against our current or future competitors. If we encounter new competition or fail to compete effectively against our competitors, our business may be harmed. 12 Table of Contents We face and will continue to face significant price competition. Generally, pricing is very aggressive in our industry, and we expect pricing pressures to escalate should economic conditions deteriorate. An increase in price competition could result in a reduction of our profit margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to offset the effects of price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, higher sales, cost reductions, or otherwise. Also, our sales of IT hardware products generally result in lower profit margins than those associated with software products. Such pricing pressures could result in an erosion of our market share, reduced sales, and reduced operating margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may experience a reduction in the incentive programs offered to us by our vendors. Some product manufacturers and distributors provide us with incentives such as supplier reimbursements, payment discounts, price protection, rebates, and other similar arrangements. The increasingly competitive computer hardware market has already resulted in the following: • reduction or elimination of some of these incentive programs; • more restrictive price protection and other terms; and • reduced advertising allowances and incentives, in some cases. Many product suppliers provide us with advertising allowances, and in exchange, we feature their products in our catalogs and other marketing vehicles. These vendor allowances, to the extent that they represent specific reimbursements of incremental and identifiable costs, are offset against SG&A expenses. Advertising allowances that cannot be associated with a specific program funded by an individual vendor or that exceed the fair value of advertising expense associated with that program are classified as offsets to cost of sales or inventory. In the past, we have experienced a decrease in the level of vendor consideration available to us from certain manufacturers. The level of such consideration we receive from some manufacturers may decline in the future. Such a decline could decrease our gross profit and have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Virtualization of IT resources and applications, including networks, servers, applications, and data storage may disrupt or alter our traditional distribution models. Our customers can access, through a Cloud platform, business-critical solutions without the significant initial capital investment required for dedicated infrastructure. Migrating to a cloud-based environment increases the risk of data security, connectivity, and performance for our customers. There can be no assurances that we can mitigate these risks for our customers, or that we will be able to effectively compete using these virtual distribution models. Our inability to compete effectively with current or future virtual distribution model competitors, or adapt to a cloud-based environment, could have a material, adverse effect on our business. Our business could be materially adversely affected by any failure, interruption, or security lapse of our information technology systems. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems and infrastructure. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, disrupting our business. In addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to Company or customer data, denial of service attacks, the processing of fraudulent transactions and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have in place various processes, procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to prevent a material security threat. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to disruption of our operations or loss of sensitive information as well as subject us to regulatory actions, litigation, or damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Should our financial performance not meet expectations and our stock price trade below current levels, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings for impairment of goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment each year and more frequently if potential impairment indicators arise. Although the fair value of goodwill held by our Large Account reporting unit substantially exceeded its carrying value at our annual impairment test, should the financial performance of the reporting unit not meet expectations due to the economy or otherwise, we would likely adjust downward its expected future operating results and cash flows. Such adjustment may result in a determination that the carrying value of goodwill for the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. This determination may in turn require that we record a significant non-cash charge to earnings to reduce the $51.3 million aggregate carrying amount of goodwill held by our Large Account reporting unit, resulting in a negative effect on our results of operations. The failure to comply with our public sector contracts could result in, among other things, fines or liabilities. Revenues from the public sector segment are derived from sales to federal, state, and local government departments and agencies, as well as to educational institutions, through various contracts and open market sales. Government contracting is a highly regulated area. Noncompliance with government procurement regulations or contract provisions could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of government contracts, and suspension, debarment, or ineligibility from doing business with the government. Our current arrangements with these government agencies allow them to cancel orders with little or no notice and do not require them to purchase products from us in the future. The effect of any of these possible actions by any government department or agency could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We could experience Internet and other system failures which would interfere with our ability to process orders. We depend on the accuracy and proper use of our management information systems, including our telephone system. Many of our key functions depend on the quality and effective utilization of the information generated by our management information systems, including: • our ability to purchase, sell, and ship products efficiently and on a timely basis; • our ability to manage inventory and accounts receivable collection; and • our ability to maintain operations. Our management information systems require continual upgrades to most effectively manage our operations and customer database. Although we maintain some redundant systems, with full data backup, our primary computer and telecommunications hardware is located in a single facility in New Hampshire, and a substantial interruption in our management information systems or in our telephone communication systems, including those resulting from extreme weather and natural disasters, as well as power loss, telecommunications failure, or similar events, would substantially hinder our ability to process customer orders and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business. We acquire a majority of our products for resale from a limited number of vendors. The loss of any one of these vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business. We acquire products for resale both directly from manufacturers and increasingly indirectly through distributors and other sources. The five vendors supplying the greatest amount of goods to us constituted 63%, 65%, and 69% of our total product purchases in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Among these five vendors, purchases from Ingram represented 26%, 25%, and 25% of our total product purchases in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Purchases from Synnex Corporation represented 14%, 14%, and 12% of our total product purchases in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Purchases from Tech Data 14 Table of Contents Corporation represented 10%, 12%, and 14% of our total product purchases in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Purchases from HP represented 9%, 10%, and 9% of our total product purchases in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. No other vendor supplied more than 10% of our total product purchases in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, or 2010. If we were unable to acquire products from Ingram, Synnex, Tech Data, or HP, we could experience a short-term disruption in the availability of products, and such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Products manufactured by HP represented 27% of our net sales in 2012 and 28% of our net sales in both 2011 and 2010. We believe that in the event we experience either a short-term or permanent disruption of supply of HP products, such disruption would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Substantially all of our contracts and arrangements with our vendors that supply significant quantities of products are terminable by such vendors or us without notice or upon short notice. Most of our product vendors provide us with trade credit, of which the net amount outstanding at December 31, 2012 was $126.1 million. Termination, interruption, or contraction of relationships with our vendors, including a reduction in the level of trade credit provided to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Some product manufacturers either do not permit us to sell the full line of their products or limit the number of product units available to direct marketers such as us. An element of our business strategy is to continue increasing our participation in first-to-market purchase opportunities. The availability of certain desired products, especially in the direct marketing channel, has been constrained in the past. We could experience a material adverse effect to our business if we are unable to source first-to-market purchases or similar opportunities, or if significant availability constraints reoccur. We are exposed to inventory obsolescence due to the rapid technological changes occurring in the personal computer industry. The market for personal computer products is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products and product enhancements. Our success depends in large part on our ability to identify and market products that meet the needs of customers in that marketplace. In order to satisfy customer demand and to obtain favorable purchasing discounts, we have and may continue to carry increased inventory levels of certain products. By so doing, we are subject to the increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Also, in order to implement our business strategy, we intend to continue, among other things, placing larger than typical inventory stocking orders of selected products and increasing our participation in first-to-market purchase opportunities. We may also, from time to time, make large inventory purchases of certain end-of-life products, which would increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. In addition, we sometimes acquire special purchase products without return privileges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid losses related to obsolete inventory. Manufacturers have limited return rights and have taken steps to reduce their inventory exposure by supporting “configure-to-order” programs authorizing distributors and resellers to assemble computer hardware under the manufacturers’ brands. These actions reduce the costs to manufacturers and shift the burden of inventory risk to resellers like us, which could negatively impact our business. We are dependent on key personnel. Our future performance will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior executives and other key management personnel. The competition for qualified management personnel in the computer products industry is very intense, and the loss of service of one or more of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. Our success and plans for future growth will also depend on our ability to hire, train, and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business, including sales representatives and technical support personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, train, and retain sufficient qualified personnel to achieve our business objectives. 15 Table of Contents The methods of distributing IT products are changing, and such changes may negatively impact us and our business. The manner in which IT hardware and software are distributed and sold is changing, and new methods of distribution and sale, such as online shopping services, have emerged. Hardware and software manufacturers have sold, and may intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to end users. From time to time, certain manufacturers have instituted programs for the direct sales of large order quantities of hardware and software to certain major corporate accounts. These types of programs may continue to be developed and used by various manufacturers. Some of our vendors, including Apple, Dell, HP, and Lenovo, currently sell some of their products directly to end users and have stated their intentions to increase the level of such direct sales. In addition, manufacturers may attempt to increase the volume of software products distributed electronically to end users. An increase in the volume of products sold through or used by consumers of any of these competitive programs or distributed electronically to end users could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend heavily on third-party shippers to deliver our products to customers. Many of our customers elect to have their purchases shipped by an interstate common carrier, such as UPS or FedEx Corporation. A strike or other interruption in service by these shippers could adversely affect our ability to market or deliver products to customers on a timely basis. Natural disasters, terrorism, and other circumstances could materially adversely affect our business. Natural disasters, terrorism, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors, and customers. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services or products to our customers, or to receive products from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. In the event of a natural disaster, significant recovery time and substantial expenditures could be required to resume operations and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may experience potential increases in shipping, paper, and postage costs, which may adversely affect our business if we are not able to pass such increases on to our customers. Shipping costs are a significant expense in the operation of our business. Increases in postal or shipping rates could significantly impact the cost of shipping customer orders and mailing our catalogs. Postage prices and shipping rates increase periodically, and we have no control over future increases. We have a long-term contract with UPS, and believe that we have negotiated favorable shipping rates with our carriers. We generally invoice customers for shipping and handling charges. There can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on to our customers the full cost, including any future increases in the cost, of commercial delivery services. We also incur substantial paper and postage costs related to our marketing activities, including producing and mailing our catalogs. Paper prices historically have been cyclical, and we have experienced substantial increases in the past. Significant increases in postal or shipping rates and paper costs could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations, particularly if we cannot pass on such increases to our customers or offset such increases by reducing other costs. We rely on the continued development of electronic commerce and Internet infrastructure development. We have had an increasing level of sales made via the Internet in part because of the growing use and acceptance of the Internet by end users. Sales of computer products via the Internet represent a significant portion 16 Table of Contents of overall computer product sales. Growth of our Internet sales is dependent on potential customers using the Internet in addition to traditional means of commerce to purchase products. We cannot accurately predict the rate at which they will do so. Our success in growing our Internet business will depend in large part upon our development of an increasingly sophisticated infrastructure for providing Internet access and services. If the number of Internet users or their use of Internet resources continues to grow rapidly, such growth may impact the performance of our existing Internet infrastructure. Additionally, our ability to increase the speed with which we provide services to customers and to increase the scope of such services ultimately is limited by, and reliant upon, the sophistication, speed, reliability, and cost-effectiveness of the networks operated by third parties, and these networks may not continue to be developed or be available at prices consistent with our required business model. Also, increasing customer sophistication requires that we provide additional website features and functionality in order to be competitive in the marketplace and maintain market share. We face uncertainties relating to unclaimed property and the collection of state sales and use tax. We collect and remit sales and use taxes in states in which we have either voluntarily registered or have a physical presence. Various states have sought to impose on direct marketers the burden of collecting state sales and use taxes on the sales of products shipped to their residents. Many states have adopted rules that require companies and their affiliates to register in those states as a condition of doing business with those state agencies. Our three sales companies are registered in substantially all states, however, if a state were to determine that our earlier contacts with that state exceeded the constitutionally permitted contacts, the state could assess a tax liability relating to our prior year sales. A comprehensive multi-state unclaimed property audit continues to be in process, and total accruals for unclaimed property aggregated $2.4 million at December 31, 2012. Privacy concerns with respect to list development and maintenance may materially adversely affect our business. We mail catalogs and other promotional materials to names in our customer database and to potential customers whose names we obtain from rented or exchanged mailing lists. Public concern regarding the protection of personal information has subjected the rental and use of customer mailing lists and other customer information to increased scrutiny. Legislation enacted limiting or prohibiting the use of rented or exchanged mailing lists could negatively affect our business. We are controlled by two principal stockholders. Patricia Gallup and David Hall, our two principal stockholders, beneficially own or control, in the aggregate, approximately 63% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2012. Because of their beneficial stock ownership, these stockholders can continue to elect the members of the Board of Directors and decide all matters requiring stockholder approval at a meeting or by a written consent in lieu of a meeting. Similarly, such stockholders can control decisions to adopt, amend, or repeal our charter and our bylaws, or take other actions requiring the vote or consent of our stockholders and prevent a takeover of us by one or more third parties, or sell or otherwise transfer their stock to a third party, which could deprive our stockholders of a control premium that might otherwise be realized by them in connection with an acquisition of our Company. Such control may result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our public stockholders. In connection with our initial public offering, the principal stockholders placed substantially all shares of common stock beneficially owned by them into a voting trust, pursuant to which they are required to agree as to the manner of voting such shares in order for the shares to be voted. Such provisions could discourage bids for our common stock at a premium as well as have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 