Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this report, and other materials accompanying this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: •The benefits associated with the consolidation and integration of acquired businesses; •The recognition of our brands in our industry; •Our ability to capitalize on the consolidation we believe is occurring in our industry; •The performance of the VMS Industry generally; •The effectiveness of our manufacturing quality control measures; •The effectiveness of our marketing and sales efforts; •The availability and pricing of raw materials; •Current and future government regulation of our products or adverse determinations by regulators (including the banning of products) and more particularly Good Manufacturing Practices; •Our beliefs with respect to our competitive position; •The outcome of any legal proceedings in which we are involved; •Our beliefs with respect to an EBITDA-based performance measure of our business; •Our ability to successfully integrate our acquisitions and to make future acquisitions; •Adverse studies and/or publicity regarding nutritional supplements generally or a particular supplement; •Our inability to obtain and/or renew insurance and/or the costs of the same; •Exposure to and expense of defending and resolving, product liability claims and other litigation, including administrative and criminal proceedings; and •The effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause industry trends or our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these statements. For a detailed discussion of these risks and uncertainties, see "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry data used throughout this report was obtained from industry publications and internal company estimates. While we believe such information to be reliable, its accuracy has not been independently verified and cannot be guaranteed. PART I Item 1. Business We were incorporated in Delaware in 1993 and maintain our principal executive offices at 1400 Kearns Boulevard, 2nd Floor, Park City, Utah, 84060. For convenience in this report, the terms "Company," "Nutraceutical," "we" and "us" may be used to refer to Nutraceutical International Corporation and/or its subsidiaries, except where indicated otherwise. Our telephone number is (435) 655-6106. General We are an integrated manufacturer, marketer, distributor and retailer of branded nutritional supplements and other natural products sold primarily to and through domestic health and natural food stores. Internationally, we market and distribute branded nutritional supplements and other natural products to and through health and natural product distributors and retailers. Our core business strategy is to acquire, integrate and operate, from beginning to end, the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of branded nutritional supplement businesses in the natural products industry. We believe that the consolidation and integration of these acquired businesses provides ongoing financial synergies through increased scale and market penetration, as well as strengthened customer relationships. We sell branded nutritional supplements and other natural products under the trademarks Solaray®, VegLife®, KAL®, Nature's Life®, Sunny Green®, Action Labs®, Natural Balance®, NaturalMax®, bioAllers®, Herbs for Kids™, Natra-Bio®, NaturalCare®, Zand®, Life-flo®, Larénim®, Living Flower Essences®, Pioneer®, Thompson®, Natural Sport®, Supplement Training Systems®, Premier One®, Montana Big Sky™, ActiPet®, FunFresh Foods™, CompliMed®, AllVia™, Healthway®, Body Gold®, Sayge BioSciences™, Monarch Nutritional Laboratories™ and Great Basin Botanicals™. Under the name Woodland Publishing™, we publish, print and market a line of books and booklets to, among others, book distributors, national retail bookstores and health and natural food stores. We also distribute branded products of certain third parties. We own neighborhood natural food markets, which operate under the trade names The Real Food Company™, Thom's Natural Foods™ and Cornucopia Community Market™. We also own health food stores, which operate under the trade names Fresh Vitamins™, Granola's™ and Pilgrim's Natureway™. We manufacture and/or distribute one of the broadest branded product lines in the industry with over 3,900 SKUs, including over 700 SKUs sold internationally. We believe that as a result of our emphasis on innovation, quality, loyalty, education and customer service, our brands are widely recognized in health and natural food stores and among their customers. We were formed in 1993 by senior management and Bain Capital, Inc. to effect a consolidation strategy in the fragmented vitamin, mineral, herbal and other nutritional supplements industry (the "VMS Industry"). Since our formation, we have completed the following acquisitions: Solaray, Inc. ("Solaray"), Premier One Products, Inc. ("Premier One"), Makers of KAL, Inc. and Makers of KAL, B.V. (collectively, "KAL"), Monarch Nutritional Laboratories, Inc. ("Monarch"), Action Labs, Inc. ("Action Labs"), NutraForce (Canada) International, Inc. ("NutraForce Canada"), Woodland Publishing, Inc. and Summit Graphics, Inc. (collectively, "Woodland Publishing"), Thompson Nutritionals, Inc. ("Thompson"), The Real Food Company, Inc., Thom's Natural Foods, and Cornucopia Community Market, Inc. (collectively, "Fresh Organics"), M. K. Health Food Distributors, Inc., dba Nature's Life ("Nature's Life"), Arizona Health Foods, Inc. and Pilgrim's Natureway LLC (collectively, "Fresh Vitamins"), Natural Balance, Inc. ("Natural Balance"), Montana Naturals, Inc. ("Montana Naturals"), Pioneer Nutritional Formulas, Inc. ("Pioneer"), Living Flower Essences, LLC ("Living Flowers"), Life-flo Health Care Products, Inc. and Nutraceutical Labs, Inc. ("Life-flo"), Larenim Cosmetics ("Larenim"), certain brands of Botanical Laboratories, Inc., including 1 Zand, NatraBio, BioAllers, Herbs for Kids and CompliMed ("Zand"), TERAPI-consult.as ("Terapi") and NaturalCare Products, Inc. ("NaturalCare"). As a result of these acquisitions, internal growth and cost management, we believe that we are well positioned to continue to capitalize on the consolidation that we believe is occurring in the VMS Industry. Business Strategy Our strategic emphasis is primarily on selling our branded products directly to health and natural food stores in the United States (the "Healthy Foods Channel"). This strategy has enabled us to benefit from the growth of the Healthy Foods Channel. The Healthy Foods Channel consists of more than 17,000 retailers, including (i) independent health and natural food stores, (ii) health and natural food stores affiliated with local, regional and national health and natural food chains (including health and natural food store chains, such as Whole Foods Markets and vitamin store chains, such as Vitamin Shoppe and Vitamin World), and (iii) GNC stores. The Healthy Foods Channel principally caters to consumers who desire product education, service and high quality nutritional supplements and other natural products. The growth rate of the Healthy Foods Channel is not at (and may not return to) levels achieved in the mid-1990s. We believe there are significant differences between mass market retailers (such as supermarkets, drugstores and warehouse clubs) that typically offer a limited selection of discounted natural products and lower-potency nutritional supplements and the Healthy Foods Channel, where natural ingredients, quality, potency, selection and customer support are emphasized. We believe we are among the largest suppliers of nutritional supplements to the Healthy Foods Channel that develops, manufactures, markets and directly distributes a majority of its own products. We manufactured approximately 80% of our branded products in fiscal 2007 and believe that the quality of our products is among the highest in the industry. We market our branded products through one of the industry's largest sales forces dedicated to the Healthy Foods Channel. We seek to be a market leader in the development of new and innovative products, introducing over 220 new SKUs in fiscal 2007. We believe that we benefit from greater customer and product diversification than most of our larger competitors. Industry The total retail natural products market (the "Natural Products Market") is highly fragmented and totaled approximately $85.0 billion in retail sales in calendar 2006. The Natural Products Market is comprised of the following submarkets (with estimated calendar 2006 sales indicated): (i) personal care, $7.5 billion, (ii) natural and organic foods, $23.6 billion, (iii) functional foods, $31.4 billion, and (iv) vitamins, minerals and supplements, $22.5 billion. Historically, our primary focus has been on vitamins, minerals and supplements (the "VMS Market"), but recently we have increased our effort in other areas within the Natural Products Market. As indicated above, our primary focus has been on the VMS Market. The total retail VMS Market is highly fragmented with estimated sales of $22.5 billion in calendar 2006, $21.3 billion in calendar 2005, and $20.3 billion in calendar 2004. We believe that the VMS Market reached its present size due to a number of factors, including (i) interest in healthier lifestyles, living longer and living well, (ii) the publication of research findings supporting the positive health effects of certain nutritional supplements and (iii) the aging of the "Baby Boom" generation combined with the tendency of consumers to purchase more nutritional supplements and natural foods as they age. In recent periods, however, various publicly-traded nutritional supplement companies, as well as industry analysts, have announced a firming in sales of natural products with an ongoing softness in sales of nutritional supplements. We believe this continuing softness may be the result of, among other things, the lack of any recent industry-wide "hit" products, negative press releases regarding certain ingredients and/or companies in the VMS Market and increased market and pricing competition, as well as competition from food and pharmaceutical companies. 2 Products We primarily manufacture and market nutritional supplements and also sell certain other natural products. As of September 30, 2007, we sold over 3,900 SKUs, including over 700 SKUs sold internationally. Our products include: (i) vitamins and minerals, (ii) herbs, (iii) specialty formulas, and (iv) other products. To accommodate consumer preferences, our products come in various formulations and delivery forms, including capsules, tablets, softgels, chewables, liquids, creams, sprays, powders and whole herbs. We currently market our products through a multiple brand strategy to offer more customer choice and to encourage retailers to allocate additional shelf space to our brands. We have worked to enhance the strength of our brands by instituting business strategies that have included (i) consolidating and expanding our sales force as appropriate to increase each brand's geographic coverage, (ii) performance and growth-based incentives for sales representatives, (iii) introducing more sophisticated management information systems, and (iv) periodic updating to brand packaging. As of September 30, 2007, our portfolio of brand names consisted of the following: Solaray®. Solaray began in 1973 as a pioneer in formulating and marketing blended herbal products that contain two or more herbs with complementary effects. From its inception, Solaray focused on encapsulated products that offer rapid disintegration and are easy to swallow and sold its products directly to the Healthy Foods Channel. By 1984, Solaray became a full-line manufacturer, carrying not only herbs, but also a full line of vitamins, minerals and specialty formulas. Solaray has become one of the leading brands of nutritional supplements in the Healthy Foods Channel and has developed a reputation among many customers for quality, consistency and innovation. Solaray's brand packaging is distinguished by a white bottle or background, and a rainbow of five colors across the top of the label as a backdrop to the distinctive Solaray logo. VegLife®. VegLife began in 1992 as a product line under the Solaray brand. The goal was to create a line of products that would be suitable for strict vegetarians who avoid any animal-derived ingredients, including gelatin capsules. VegLife was among the first to introduce a line of nutritional supplements using a cellulose-based capsule with substantially equivalent characteristics to a traditional gelatin capsule. Vegetarian consumers showed interest in this product line, so we established it as a separate brand in 1995 in order to focus on the development of a full line of vegetarian products. The VegLife team scrutinizes each product developed, as well as the materials used in formulation, to help ensure that vegan standards are met. The VegLife brand includes primarily encapsulated products, but also includes powdered protein drink mixes under the trademarks Peaceful Planet™ and The Supreme Meal™. VegLife's brand packaging includes a distinctive green and blue label, as well as a logo with an attractive depiction of a leaf. KAL®. KAL started in Southern California in 1932 as one of the first nutritional supplement lines in the United States. Although KAL's first products were in powdered form, KAL soon shifted its focus to tableted products that are generally more economical than capsules as a delivery form and which allow for fewer units per dose than encapsulated products. KAL was one of the first companies to introduce MSM, NADH and a complete line of colostrum products. KAL's logo consists of the word KAL in white letters on a red banner superimposed over a green circle that includes the words INNOVATIVE and QUALITY around the border, and contains an image of blue skies with clouds and green hills below. The words SINCE 1932 accompany the logo on either side. The bottle is a luminescent pearl color and is partially translucent, so that the pills inside can be viewed without opening the bottle. The bottle has a lid that can be lifted and re-closed without removal. The label is white on top with a light blue accent at the base and includes an image of mountains separating the two colors. 3 Nature's Life®. Nature's Life began in 1970 in Southern California. The Nature's Life product line includes such products as Super Green Pro 96™ and Super Blue Pro 96™ soy protein powders, Soft Gelatin™ Multiple, 600 Prostate Maintain™ supplement and Golden Flax Seed Oil™ liquid. Nature's Life's brand packaging was updated in 2007 to blue pearlescent plastic bottles with yellow lids and includes a distinctive yellow citrus and sunburst background. Sunny Green®. Our line of green supplements launched in 1997. This brand, now known as Sunny Green, remains focused on chlorophyll-laden "green foods," such as algae (including chlorella, spirulina and blue green algae) and cereal grasses (including barley and wheat grass). These products are currently offered in tablet forms and drink mixes. Sunny Green's brand packaging includes a distinctive Sunny Green logo and a label with green borders and accents. Action Labs®. Action Labs started in 1989 with a focus on men's and women's specialty supplements and diet and energy products. Nutraceutical acquired this brand late in fiscal 1998. The packaging of Action Labs products includes the distinctive Action Labs logo and brightly colored text. Natural Balance®. Natural Balance began in 1983 in Castle Rock, Colorado as Pep Products, Inc. with one product, Pep®, one of the first herbal energizers. Natural Balance products focus on weight management, energy, specialty and sports nutrition. Natural Balance is known as one of the first companies to blend herbs in synergistic combinations. The Natural Balance product line includes products such as Colon Clenz®, Ultra Diet Pep®, Happy Camper® and Cobra®. Natural Balance's brand packaging bears the distinctive Natural Balance logo, which includes a stylized depiction of a budding plant. NaturalMax®. NaturalMax launched in 1995 in connection with the KAL acquisition. The NaturalMax product line includes diet products (with diet plans) as well as energy and women's health products. The NaturalMax brand uses tablets, softgels, capsules, powders and liquids, depending on the most desired form for a particular product. The packaging of NaturalMax products includes the distinctive red NaturalMax logo. bioAllers®. A spin-off of the NatraBio® brand in 1989, this homeopathic line is focused on allergy symptoms. The bioAllers® product line offers nasal sprays, liquids and tablets. The bioAllers packaging consists of white boxes with a light blue band at the bottom of the label with the distinctive bioAllers logo on the bottom of the box in blue and green. Herbs for Kids™. Since its beginning in 1990, the Herbs for Kids™ brand has focused on herbal extracts created specifically for children. The Herbs for Kids packaging consists of a yellow background with the silhouette of two children picking flowers and the distinctive purple Herbs for Kids logo on the bottom border. Natra-Bio®. The NatraBio® brand is a homeopathic brand first launched in 1979. NatraBio® products include a range of product forms—from fully medicated compressed tablets to liquids, cough syrups, throat and nasal sprays, and topical creams. The Natra-Bio packaging consists of colorful boxes with the distinctive Natra-Bio logo appearing at the bottom of the label. NaturalCare®. The NaturalCare® brand launched in 1993 to provide products that combined homeopathic and dietary supplement ingredients. NaturalCare® includes such products as RingStop, SinuFix, NerveFix and Reflux-Away. The NaturalCare packaging consists of bright, colorful boxes with a leaf next to the NaturalCare logo at the top of the box and then an offset oval watermark with a red, orange and yellow border in the middle of the box. Zand®. The Zand® brand launched in 1978 with an herbal formula that included echinacea, goldenseal and 16 other botanical extracts. That formula is still sold today as Insure Immune Support™. Zand® supplements combine Western herbal traditions with traditional Chinese medicine. The Zand® 4 product line features classic herbal extracts and immunity support formulas in liquid and capsule form. Zand's packaging consists of amber bottles and includes a distinctive blue band border on the top of the label. Life-flo®. The Life-flo® brand was developed in 1995 to provide natural health solutions in cream form and as dietary supplements. The Life-flo® brand pioneered one of the first "natural" progesterone creams as an alternative to creams with synthetic ingredients. The Life-flo® brand offers most of its creams in plastic bottles with a measured application pump to ensure proper usage and avoid waste. The Life-flo packaging consists of white bottles with the Life-flo logo on the upper left corner in a deep purple and a silver band across the bottom of the label. Larénim®. Larénim® mineral make-up is a three-year old brand of mineral cosmetics currently sold in over 700 stores nationwide. Larenim® products are designed as a healthy alternative to standard cosmetics. Larénim®—mineral spelled backwards—offers more than 120 items, including a full line of foundation, concealers, blush, bronzers, eye colors, and brushes. Made from pure and natural ingredients, Larénim® products are formulated to give skin a healthy and glowing appearance without the use of bismuth oxychloride, talc, dyes, oils or parabens. The Larenim packaging consists of clear plastic jars in 2g to 5g sizes with black and clear lids inside of a black box with white lettering and the distinctive Larenim logo. Living Flower Essences®. Living Flower Essences®, which began in 1999 and was originally based in Sedona, Arizona, was acquired in 2006. The Living Flower Essences® brand focuses on flower extracts. The Living Flower Essences® packaging includes green glass bottles with a white dropper lid. Pioneer®. Pioneer was launched in 1984 in Shelburne Falls, Massachusetts by naturopathic professionals with the goal of becoming a leader in the industry in full disclosure labeling and gluten-free formulas. Pioneer products strive to include top quality ingredients based on formulas that are supported by scientific research. Pioneer's most popular products include vitamin/mineral supplements (both encapsulated and chewable) and calcium/magnesium products. Pioneer's brand packaging consists of an amber glass bottle, a white lid, a dark green label with large white print bordered by gold with the word PIONEER across the top gold border. Thompson®. The Thompson® brand is one of the oldest dietary supplement brands in America, having originally started in 1932. Nutraceutical acquired Thompson in early 2000 and relaunched the brand in late 2000. Thompson offers a simple, high quality line of 200 products with "Everyday Value Pricing." Thompson's packaging includes highly-visible product names on bright, grape-colored labels. The Thompson logo is prominently displayed in a band of yellow, gold or green, depending on the product category. Natural Sport®. Natural Sport launched in 1998. The Natural Sport brand is focused on all-natural sport supplements for serious athletes and also individuals who exercise for fitness, improved health or weight management. Natural Sport's packaging includes a distinctive Natural Sport logo in purple with an attractive tangerine and red swath running up each side of the front panel. Supplement Training Systems®—STS®. The Supplement Training Systems® brand, also known as the STS® brand, was launched in 2006 as a brand with a focus on body building and sports training. The STS® brand includes more than thirty products. The packaging of STS products consists of blue pearlescent bottles with black lids and includes a distinctive, diamond-cut steel background with a circular serrated blade logo. Premier One®. Premier One began in 1984 in Omaha, Nebraska as one of the first product lines devoted entirely to natural, nutritional supplements derived from bee products. The Premier One brand uses capsules, chewable wafers, granules, tinctures and ingredients in a honey base. Royal Jelly in Honey is one of Premier One's most popular products. Some of Premier One's other products include 5 Raw Energy® supplement, an energy product that includes royal jelly, bee pollen and a variety of herbs, and BeeFense™ spray, a product that includes bee propolis and echinacea. Premier One's brand packaging includes a distinctive logo of a bee-harvesting scene in a mountain setting, with gold highlights on the label. Montana Big Sky™. Montana Big Sky began in 1982, originally based in Arlee, Montana. The Montana Big Sky™ brand includes various supplements derived from bee products. Montana Big Sky's brand packaging includes a glass bottle and metal lid. ActiPet®. ActiPet launched in 2000 after more than two years of research and development. This premium line of pet supplements was developed to cater to the growing segment of pet owners. ActiPet products are made with high quality, natural ingredients. The packaging includes an attractive ActiPet logo with signature paw print; dog formulas showcase a dog photo on bright blue labels and cat formulas use maroon labels with a cat photo—both with coordinating colored lids. FunFresh Foods™. FunFresh Foods launched in 2003 with a line of teas under the mark Miztique™. Miztique™ teas match high quality all-natural tea leaves from around the globe with aromatic flavors and are packaged in natural fiber, round tea bags inside a distinctive silver tin with collectible lids. FunFresh Foods also markets organic soy nuts as well as other products, including an organic and fair-trade chocolate drink mix. The FunFresh Foods brand is focused on natural and organic foods. FunFresh Foods packaging includes the unique FunFresh Foods logo in yellow and black as well as colorful and fun containers. CompliMed®. CompliMed is a line of homeopathic tinctures designed for professionals, such as naturopathic physicians and osteopaths. Complimed's brand packaging consists of an amber glass bottle with a rubber dropper lid, a white label with a slate blue border on the bottom. AllVia™. The AllVia™ brand was launched in 2001 to provide therapeutic creams and other personal care products. The AllVia packaging consists of white bottles with the AllVia logo in silver font against a violet background on the top of the label. Healthway®. Healthway, which began in 1958, was acquired in 1995 as part of the KAL acquisition. The goal of Healthway is to offer high quality products from around the world to the consumer. Body Gold®. Body Gold was launched in 1999 by Natural Balance with a focus on products with wide appeal. The Body Gold packaging includes a distinctive red and blue foil trapezoid-shaped box. Sayge Biosciences™. The Sayge Biosciences™ brand was launched in 2002 to provide therapeutic creams and other personal care products. The Sayge Biosciences packaging consists of white bottles with the Sayge Biosciences logo overlapping a distinctive interwoven circular watermark on the lower left corner of the label. Monarch Nutritional Laboratories™. Monarch Nutritional Laboratories started in 1987 and offers branded minerals and custom blend products in bulk, encapsulated, tableted and bottled forms. Monarch sells a line of enhanced minerals under the CertiPure® trademark. Woodland Publishing™. Woodland Publishing started in 1975 as one of the first publishers dedicated to the natural health field. Woodland Publishing introduces several new titles every year and currently has more than 230 titles in print; Woodland Publishing continues to be a pioneer in the field of natural health publications. Fresh Organics™. Fresh Organics is a retail chain, which includes retail stores under the trade names The Real Food Company™, Thom's Natural Foods™ and Cornucopia Community Market™ located in or near San Francisco. The Fresh Organics chain also offers private label products under 6 these same names. The Real Food Company's first store, as well as Thom's Natural Foods, opened in 1969. Cornucopia Community Market opened in 1977. Fresh Vitamins™. Fresh Vitamins is a retail chain, which includes retail stores under the trade names Fresh Vitamins™, Pilgrim's Natureway™ and Granola's™ located in Arizona and Washington state. The Fresh Vitamins chain also offers private label products under the same names. The first store opened in 1968. The Fresh Vitamins chain now includes 18 stores. We also act as a distributor to the Healthy Foods Channel and to certain international markets for certain third-party brands. These third-party brands currently include Ultimate Nutrition®, a line of sports and exercise supplements, Trout Lake Farm®, a line of bulk organic herbs, Balestra & Mech®, a line of Italian herbal tonics, and, with respect to the U.K. market, Aubrey Organics®, a line of natural hair, skin and body care products. With respect to the Norway market, we distribute BioCare Limited™, a line of nutritional supplements, and Aqua Oleum™, a line of essential oils and aromatherapy. Research and Development; Quality Control We have a commitment to research and development and to introducing innovative products to correspond with consumer trends and scientific research. We believe that product quality and innovation are fundamental to our long-term growth and success. Through our research and development efforts, we seek to (i) test the safety, purity and potency of products, (ii) develop more effective and efficient means of producing ingredients for use in products, (iii) develop testing methods for ensuring and verifying the consistency of the dosage of ingredients included in our products, (iv) develop new, more effective product delivery forms, and (v) develop new products either by combining existing ingredients used in nutritional supplements or identifying new ingredients that can be used in nutritional supplements. Our efforts are designed to lead not only to the development of new and improved products, but also to ensure effective manufacturing quality control measures. We have entered into a cooperative arrangement with Weber State University in Ogden, Utah through which, among other things, the university provides us with access to certain laboratory space and equipment. The university has assigned one faculty member as a project director to coordinate projects undertaken at the university facility. We also conduct research and development in our own facilities. We currently employ various professionals in research and development and quality control with degrees in, among other things, chemistry, microbiology and engineering and, in many cases, these professionals have also received training in natural health food products. In addition, we retain the services of outside laboratories from time to time to validate our product standards and manufacturing protocols. Our quality control program seeks to ensure the superior quality of our products and that they are manufactured in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices ("GMPs"). Our processing methods are monitored closely to ensure that only quality ingredients are used and to ensure product purity. Periodically, we retain the services of an outside GMP audit firm to assist in our efforts to comply with GMPs. Marketing and Sales We believe our marketing and sales efforts help to promote demand for our products by educating retailers, who in turn educate their customers, as to the quality and attributes of our natural nutritional supplements and other products. Our branded products are currently sold in the United States primarily in the Healthy Foods Channel. We believe that our products are attractive to retailers in the Healthy Foods Channel due to factors such as the strength of our brand names, the breadth of our product offerings, the quality and potency of our products and the availability of service, sales support and educational materials. We have developed various Internet sites (including http://www.nutraceutical.com) that provide information about our branded lines and the various products within each brand. We have 7 included our Internet site here and elsewhere only as an inactive textual reference. The information contained on the Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We employ a sales force dedicated to the Healthy Foods Channel. Our sales representatives regularly visit each assigned health and natural food store in their respective areas to assist in the solicitation of orders for products and provide related product sales assistance. We monitor and periodically update our payment structure for our sales force in order to ensure that appropriate incentives are provided for sales growth. We also sell products directly to certain retailers through our telephone customer service organization and certain products to both retailers and distributors. We have organized our marketing and sales force under a subsidiary company, NutraBrands, Inc. Our marketing efforts are focused on product development, in-store marketing support and educating retailers to enhance their knowledge and awareness of our products and to enable them to then educate their customers about our products. Our marketing efforts are designed to foster relationships with our customers in the Healthy Foods Channel and to increase retailer and consumer awareness of our products. Au Naturel, Inc., a subsidiary of Nutraceutical ("Au Naturel"), was formed in fiscal 1995 for the purpose of marketing and/or selling our branded products internationally. During fiscal 2007, Au Naturel marketed products to distributors and other customers in over 60 countries. Au Naturel markets domestic branded products as well as custom labeled versions of its domestic branded products internationally; however, many of its products must be modified to meet the specific labeling requirements of the relevant foreign country. In most foreign markets, Au Naturel sells to local distributors. However, in certain foreign markets (including Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway and Japan), Au Naturel markets and sells its products directly to retailers. Monarch Nutritional Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Nutraceutical, markets branded bulk products and custom blends. Monarch conducts marketing and sales for bulk materials domestically through a separate sales force and internationally directly to manufacturers and through distributors. Manufacturing Our manufacturing process generally consists of the following operations: (i) sourcing ingredients for products, (ii) warehousing raw ingredients, (iii) measuring ingredients for inclusion in such products, (iv) blending, grinding, and chilsonating ingredients into a mixture with a homogeneous consistency and (v) encapsulating, tableting, pouring, pouching, bagging or boxing the blended mixture into the appropriate dosage form using either automatic or semiautomatic equipment. The next step, bottling and packaging, involves placing the product in packaging with appropriate tamper-evident features and sending the packaged product to a distribution point for delivery to retailers. We place special emphasis on quality control, including raw material verification, homogeneity testing, weight deviation measurements and package quality sampling. See "Research and Development; Quality Control." We manufactured approximately 80% of our branded products in fiscal 2007, based on net sales. By manufacturing the majority of our own products, we believe that we maintain better control over product quality and availability while also reducing production costs. Our manufacturing operations are performed primarily in our facilities located in the greater Ogden, Utah area, although we also have a cream manufacturing operation in Phoenix, Arizona. We have a working relationship with numerous outside manufacturers, including softgel manufacturers and packagers and utilize these outside sources from time to time. Manufacturing backlogs, to the extent they may exist from time to time, do not have a material impact on delivery time to the customer. We have organized our manufacturing operations under a subsidiary company, NutraPure, Inc. 8 Management Information and Communication Systems We use customized computer software systems, as well as commercially packaged software, for handling order entry and invoicing, manufacturing, inventory management, shipping, warehouse operations, customer service inquiries, accounting operations and management information. We believe that these systems have improved operating efficiencies and customer service. Materials and Suppliers We employ a purchasing staff that works with marketing, product development, formulations and quality control personnel to source raw materials for products as well as other items purchased by us. Raw materials are sourced principally from the United States, Europe and China. Raw materials used by us are available from a variety of suppliers and no one supplier accounted for more than 15% of our total raw material purchases in fiscal 2007. We seek to mitigate the risk of a shortage of raw materials through our relationships with our principal suppliers, including identification of alternative suppliers for the same, or similar, raw materials where available. We also manufacture bulk branded products to allow more extensive vertical integration and to improve the quality and consistency of raw materials. Government Regulation The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sale (hereafter, "sale" or "sold" may be used to signify all of these activities) of our products are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, principally the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission, and to a lesser extent the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the United States Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency. Our activities are also regulated by various governmental agencies for the states and localities in which our products are sold, as well as by governmental agencies in certain countries outside the United States in which our products are sold. Among other matters, regulation by the FDA and FTC is concerned with product safety and claims made with respect to a product's ability to provide health-related benefits. Specifically, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution and sale of food, including dietary supplements, and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. The FTC regulates the advertising of these products. The National Advertising Division (NAD) of the Council of Better Business Bureaus oversees an industry-sponsored self-regulatory system that permits competitors to resolve disputes over advertising claims. The NAD has no enforcement authority of its own, but may refer matters that the NAD views as violating FTC guides or rules to the FTC for further action. Federal agencies, primarily the FDA and FTC, have a variety of procedures and enforcement remedies available to them, including initiating investigations, issuing warning letters and cease and desist orders, requiring corrective labeling or advertising, requiring consumer redress (for example, requiring that a company offer to repurchase products previously sold to consumers), seeking injunctive relief or product seizures, imposing civil penalties or commencing criminal prosecution. In addition, certain state agencies have similar authority. These federal and state agencies have in the past used these remedies in regulating participants in the food, dietary supplement and OTC drug industries, including the imposition of civil penalties in the millions of dollars against a few industry participants. The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act ("DSHEA") was enacted in 1994, amending the FDCA. We believe DSHEA is generally favorable to consumers and to the dietary supplement industry. DSHEA establishes a statutory class of "dietary supplements," which includes vitamins, minerals, herbs, amino acids and other dietary ingredients for human use to supplement the diet. Dietary ingredients on the market as of October 15, 1994 may be marketed without any FDA approvals and do not require the submission by the manufacturer or distributor to the FDA of a "new dietary 9 ingredient" or NDI notification. A "new dietary ingredient" which was not on the market as of October 15, 1994 may require the submission of an NDI notification containing information establishing that the ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe for its intended use at least 75 days before marketing. Among other things, DSHEA prevents the FDA from regulating dietary ingredients in dietary supplements as "food additives" and allows the use of statements of nutritional support on product labels. The FDA has issued proposed and final regulations under DSHEA and has indicated that further guidance and regulations are forthcoming. Several bills to amend DSHEA in ways that would make this law less favorable to consumers and industry have been filed in Congress. Some of our products are regulated as foods under the Nutritional Labeling and Education Act of 1990 ("NLEA"). The NLEA established requirements for ingredient and nutrition labeling and labeling claims for foods. If the NLEA labeling requirements change at a future time, we may need to revise our product labeling. Most of our products are classified as dietary supplements. On February 11, 2004, the FDA issued a final rule, effective on April 12, 2004, banning the sale of dietary supplement products containing ephedrine alkaloids and announcing a risk/benefit test that could potentially apply to other types of dietary supplements. We filed a lawsuit on May 3, 2004 in the Federal District Court in the State of Utah and were subsequently engaged in litigation with FDA over the final rule. This litigation ended in 2007 in two related decisions. Under one of these decisions, our petition for a writ of certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court was denied on May 14, 2007. However, in a related decision on March 16, 2007 (which was not part of our petition for a writ of certiorari), the Federal District Court in Utah ruled in favor of FDA but held that the risk-benefit test announced in FDA's final rule only applied to dietary supplements containing ephedrine alkaloids. Neither we nor FDA appealed this decision. We stopped shipping any products containing ephedrine alkaloids to our retail customers in April 2004. We do not currently manufacture any products containing ephedrine alkaloids. On October 20, 2004, the FDA announced a new strategy initiative to enforce and implement DSHEA, including a public meeting held on November 15, 2004. The FDA requested comments on its premarket notification program for new dietary ingredients from industry, consumers, and other interested members of the public concerning the content and format requirements for new dietary ingredients notifications made under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the type, quantity, and quality of information that a notifier should provide in notifications under section 413 (a)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA has stated that the agency intends to issue guidance on new dietary ingredients, and it is possible that the FDA may make it more difficult for companies to market dietary supplement products that contain new dietary ingredients. The FDA's October 20, 2004 announcement also outlined other potential strategy and enforcement initiatives relating to dietary supplements. The FDA issued a Final Rule on Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) on June 22, 2007 with an effective compliance date for businesses with more than 500 employees of June 22, 2008. The GMPs cover manufacturers and holders of finished dietary supplement products, including dietary supplement products manufactured outside the U.S. that are imported for sale into the U.S. Among other things, the new GMPs: (a) require identity testing on all incoming dietary ingredients, (b) call for a "scientifically valid system" for ensuring finished products meet all specifications, (c) include requirements related to process controls, including statistical sampling of finished batches for testing and requirements for written procedures, and (d) require extensive recordkeeping. We are reviewing the GMPs and taking steps to pursue compliance. The potential costs of implementing changes to help ensure compliance are not known at this time. While we believe we will be in compliance on or before the compliance date, there can be no assurance that our operations or those of our suppliers will be in compliance in all respects at all times. Additionally, there is a potential risk of increased audits as FDA and other regulators seek to ensure compliance with the GMPs. 10 The FTC and FDA have pursued a coordinated effort to challenge what they consider to be unsubstantiated and unsafe weight-loss products, and have also coordinated enforcement against dietary supplement claims in other areas, including children's products. Their efforts to date have focused on manufacturers and marketers as well as media outlets, and have resulted in a significant number of investigations and enforcement actions, some resulting in civil penalties under the Federal Trade Commission Act of several million dollars. On December 22, 2006 Congress passed the Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act that will treat dietary supplements like drugs for the purposes of adverse event reporting. The regulations go into effect on December 22, 2007. These regulations, among other things, require companies that manufacture or distribute nonprescription drugs or dietary supplements to report serious adverse events allegedly associated with their products to FDA and institute recordkeeping requirements for all adverse events (serious and non-serious). The potential costs of implementing the systems to comply with these regulations are not known at this time. Additionally, there is a risk that consumers, the press and government regulators could misinterpret reported serious adverse events as evidence of causation by the ingredient or product complained of, which could lead to additional regulations, banned ingredients or products, increased insurance costs and a potential increase in product liability litigation, among other things. The sale of our products in countries outside the United States is regulated by the governments of those countries. Our plans to commence or expand sales in those countries may be prevented or delayed or even suspended by such regulations or by regulators in those countries. In countries in which we have distributors, compliance with such regulations is generally undertaken by our distributors, but even in these cases we assist with such compliance and in many cases may be liable if a distributor fails to comply. These distributors are independent contractors over whom we have limited control. In certain countries, we distribute our products through our own subsidiary or branch; in these countries we retain responsibility for compliance with all applicable regulations. These countries currently include Canada, the United Kingdom, Norway, Sweden and Japan. The legislative and regulatory environment in Canada has recently become more stringent in terms of regulations and enforcement than the environment in the United States. The manufacturing, packaging, labeling, storage, importation, advertising, distribution, sale and clinical trials of natural health products and hybrid natural health products, are subject to regulation by Health Canada, the public health agency of Canada, under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act, the Canadian Food and Drug Regulations, the Natural Health Product Regulations and various Guidance Documents and Policies related thereto. With the exception of certain homeopathic medicines, products with ingredients required to be sold under prescription are not natural health products and are regulated as drugs through the regular drug approval process. Homeopathic medicines will also be regulated in a manner similar to natural health products, with product registrations beginning in 2008. For natural health products, manufacturers are required to make application for a product license, and the application must provide specific information including quality of medicinal ingredients, use and purpose of the products, and the supporting safety and efficacy data. These regulations also set out a regime for site licensing of buildings in which these products are imported, distributed, manufactured, packaged, labeled or stored. These regulations require that GMP's be employed. Further, the regulations set out requirements for adverse reaction reporting. Canada is our largest international market and regulators in Canada have been particularly aggressive in their enforcement of new regulations. While we endeavor to comply with applicable regulations, we and other manufacturers have faced periodic challenges to sales in Canada, including but not limited to, challenges or rejections of product license applications and challenges to or suspensions of one or more site licenses (for ourselves or our vendors). As a result of the foregoing, we 11 have experienced and may continue to experience disruptions in our business in Canada, up to and including cessation of sales. In some countries or areas, such as the European Union, there are new regulations or proposed regulations that may or will prohibit the sale of certain products or certain combination products (such as products containing both vitamins and botanicals) or the use of certain common ingredients, or levels above certain established limits. As a result of our efforts to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, we have from time to time reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of our products and revised certain provisions of our marketing and sales program. We have also suspended or halted sales in certain cases. Competition The Natural Products Market and the VMS Market are highly competitive. Our principal competitors in the VMS Market that sell to the Healthy Foods Channel include a number of large, nationally known manufacturers (such as Country Life, Enzymatic Therapy, Garden of Life, NBTY (including its Solgar brand), Natrol, Nature's Plus, Nature's Way, Now Foods, and Twinlab) and many smaller manufacturers and distributors of nutritional supplements. We have recently begun to focus on the broader Natural Products Market within the Healthy Foods Channel and within that market there are a number of large, nationally known competitors, such as Hain Celestial and United Natural Foods. Because both the Natural Products Market and the VMS Market generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors enter the market regularly. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. For example, a substantial portion of GNC's vitamin and mineral supplement offerings are offered under GNC's own private label. Whole Foods, Vitamin Shoppe and many health and natural food stores also sell a portion of their offerings under their own private labels. Private label products are often sold at a discount to branded products. The Thompson line has been positioned to meet the needs of our customers in this area of the VMS Market. We believe that health and natural food stores are increasingly likely to align themselves with those companies that offer a wide variety of high quality products, have a loyal consumer base, support their brands with strong marketing and education programs and provide consistently high levels of customer service. We believe that we compete favorably with other nutritional supplement companies because of our comprehensive line of products and brands, premium brand names, commitment to quality, ability to rapidly introduce innovative products, competitive pricing, strong and effective sales force and distribution strategy and sophisticated marketing and promotional support. The wide variety and diversity of the forms, potencies and categories of our products are important points of differentiation between us and many of our competitors. With regard to the mass market retail channel of distribution, our sales are focused primarily in limited SKUs in the Body Gold® line acquired as part of the Natural Balance acquisition, the Sayge Biosciences™ line acquired as part of the Life-flo acquisition and the NaturalCare® line acquired as part of the NaturalCare acquisition. We do not consider this channel to be an area of primary focus. Regardless, it is possible that as increasing numbers of companies sell nutritional supplement products and other natural products in the mass market channels (such as Leiner, Nature Made, NBTY, Schiff and Hain Celestial), these product offerings may affect sales in the Healthy Foods Channel. We also compete with distributors that sell products to the Healthy Foods Channel as well as the mass market retail channel (such as Nature's Best, Select Nutrition and Tree of Life). In addition, several major pharmaceutical companies continue to offer nutritional supplement lines in the mass market, including Wyeth (Centrum) and Bayer (One-A-Day). Some of these nutritional supplements purport to use proprietary manufacturing techniques or delivery forms. Moreover, pharmaceutical companies offer 12 prescription and over-the-counter products that are or may be competitive with nutritional supplements, particularly with regard to certain categories of products. Intellectual Property We own more than 200 trademarks that have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and have filed applications to register additional trademarks. In addition, we claim domestic trademark and service mark rights in numerous additional marks that we use. We own a number of trademark registrations in countries outside the United States. We regard our trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable assets and believe they make a significant positive contribution to the marketing of our products. We protect our legal rights concerning our trademarks by appropriate legal action. We rely on common law trademark rights to protect our unregistered trademarks. Common law trademark rights do not provide us with the same level of protection as afforded by a United States federal registration of a trademark. In addition, common law trademark rights are limited to the geographic area in which the trademark is actually used. We have registered and intend to register certain trademarks in certain limited jurisdictions outside the United States where our products are sold, but we may not register all or even some of our trademarks in every country in which we conduct business or intend to conduct business. We own four U.S. patents and have filed two additional patent applications but generally do not seek patent protection for our products. We sell a number of products that include patented ingredients. We purchase these ingredients from parties that we believe have the right to manufacture and/or sell those ingredients to us. However, there are a large number of patents that have been granted or applied for in the dietary supplement industry, and there may be an increased possibility that third parties will seek to compel us and our competitors to purchase their patented ingredients or file infringement actions. The cost of these patented ingredients is typically higher than the cost of non-patented ingredients. We are currently involved in various patent and trademark cases that have arisen in the ordinary course of business; see "Legal Proceedings." Employees At September 30, 2007, we employed approximately 710 full-time and approximately 95 part-time employees. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe that we have a good relationship with our employees. Available Information The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC includes all exhibits required to be filed with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, on our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Such reports are available as soon as is reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with the SEC. Additionally, copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, not including any of the exhibits listed under Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are available without charge upon request. Please contact us to request copies of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and for information as to the number of pages contained in each of the exhibits and to request copies of such exhibits (435-655-6106). 13 Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers: Name Age Position Frank W. Gay II 62 Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Bruce R. Hough 53 President Jeffrey A. Hinrichs 50 Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Secretary Gary M. Hume 58 Executive Vice President Stanley E. Soper 44 Vice President, Legal Affairs and Assistant Secretary Cory J. McQueen 38 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Christopher B. Neuberger 41 Vice President, Marketing and Sales Andrew W. Seelos 40 Assistant Vice President and Controller Frank W. Gay II has served as the Chairman of our Board of Directors since our inception and as Chief Executive Officer since 1994. Mr. Gay has been a partner of F.W. Gay & Sons, a private equity investment group, from 1967 to present. Mr. Gay received a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School. Bruce R. Hough was made our President in 1994. Prior to joining Nutraceutical, Mr. Hough acted as a consultant from 1991 to 1993 and as President of Keystone Communications, a telecommunications firm, from 1987 to 1991. Mr. Hough received an associate's degree from Ricks College. Jeffrey A. Hinrichs has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since 1994 and as a member of our Board of Directors since 1998. Prior to joining Nutraceutical, Mr. Hinrichs served as President of Solaray from 1993 to 1994 and as Chief Financial Officer, and in other management positions, with Solaray from 1984 to 1993. Mr. Hinrichs received a bachelor of science degree from Weber State University. Gary M. Hume has served as our Executive Vice President since September 1999. Prior to joining Nutraceutical, Mr. Hume was President and CEO of Murdock Madaus Schwabe (Nature's Way) from 1995 to 1999. Prior to joining Nature's Way, Mr. Hume was President of Tree of Life's Southwest Division for over twenty years. Mr. Hume received a bachelor of arts from Southwestern Union College. Stanley E. Soper joined Nutraceutical in 1997 as Vice President, Legal Affairs. Mr. Soper left Nutraceutical in August 1999. From September 1999 until March 2001, Mr. Soper was Founder and Senior Vice President of MyCounsel.com. He rejoined Nutraceutical in his previous position in March 2001. Mr. Soper was in private law practice from 1991 to 1997, most recently with Holland & Hart LLP. Mr. Soper received a J.D. from Yale Law School. Cory J. McQueen joined Nutraceutical in March 1995 as Assistant Controller. Mr. McQueen became Controller in October 1997 and was appointed Vice President in February 2001. In April 2007, Mr. McQueen became Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Nutraceutical, he was employed by Price Waterhouse LLP. Mr. McQueen received a master's degree in accounting from the University of Utah and is a Certified Public Accountant. Christopher B. Neuberger joined Nutraceutical in August 1995 as Director of Marketing for the Premier One brand. Mr. Neuberger left Nutraceutical from March 1997 to December 1997 while he was employed by Weider Nutrition International, Inc. Mr. Neuberger became President of NutraBrands, our marketing and sales subsidiary in March 1999 and was appointed as our Vice President, Marketing and Sales in April 2005. Mr. Neuberger was previously employed by 14 Melaleuca, Inc. Mr. Neuberger received his master's degree in business administration from Thunderbird, The Garvin School of International Management. Andrew W. Seelos joined Nutraceutical in March 1997 as Assistant Controller. Mr. Seelos was appointed Assistant Vice President and Controller in April 2007. Prior to joining Nutraceutical, he was employed by Price Waterhouse LLP. Mr. Seelos received a master's degree in accounting from Brigham Young University and is a Certified Public Accountant. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Forward-Looking Statements and Certain Risks The statements contained in this report that are not purely historical are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements regard our expectations, hopes, beliefs, commitments, intentions, and strategies regarding the future. They may be identified by the use of words or phrases, such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "should," "plan," "estimate," and "potential," among others. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements contained in "Business" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" regarding our financial performance, revenue and expense levels in the future, and the sufficiency of our existing assets to fund future operations and capital spending needs. Actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements or for the reasons discussed below. The fact that some of the risk factors may be the same or similar to past reports we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission means only that the risks are present in multiple periods. We believe that many of the risks detailed here are part of doing business in the industry in which we operate and compete and will likely be present in all periods reported. The fact that certain risks are endemic to the industry does not lessen their significance. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are made as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update them or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Among others, risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition, performance, development, and results of operations include the following: Regulatory, Product Liability and Insurance Risks Our products are subject to government regulation, both in the US and abroad, which could increase our costs significantly and limit or prevent the sale of our products. The manufacture, packaging, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous national and local governmental agencies in the United States and other countries. The primary regulatory bodies in the United States are the FDA and FTC and we are also subject to Health Canada in Canada, the Food Standards Agency and the Department of Health in the UK and similar regulators in Norway. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may result in various types of penalties or fines. These include injunctions, product withdrawals, recalls, product seizures, fines, and criminal prosecutions. Individual states also regulate nutritional supplements. A state may interpret claims or products presumptively valid under federal law as illegal under that state's regulations. In markets outside the United States, we are usually required to obtain approvals, licenses, or certifications from a country's ministry of health or comparable agency, as well as labeling and packaging regulations, all of which vary from country to country. Approvals or licensing may be conditioned on reformulation of products or may be unavailable with respect to certain products or product ingredients. Any of these government agencies, as well as legislative bodies, can change existing regulations, or impose new ones, or could take aggressive measures, causing or contributing to a variety of negative consequences, including: •requirements for the reformulation of certain or all products to meet new standards, •the recall or discontinuance of certain or all products, 15 •additional record keeping, •expanded documentation of the properties of certain or all products, •expanded or different labeling, •adverse event tracking and reporting, and •additional scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change or that such regulatory environment, or any specific action taken against us, will not result in a material adverse effect on us. If we experience product recalls, we may incur significant and unexpected costs, and our business reputation could be adversely affected. We may be exposed to product recalls and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness, or if we are alleged to have violated governmental regulations. A product recall could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce operating profit and cash flow. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Product recalls may hurt the value of our brands and lead to decreased demand for our products. Product recalls also may lead to increased scrutiny by federal, state or international regulatory agencies of our operations and increased litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may experience product liability claims and litigation to prosecute such claims, and although we maintain product liability insurance, which we believe to be adequate for our needs, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage. As a manufacturer and a distributor of products for human consumption, we experience product liability claims and litigation to prosecute such claims. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of these products involves the risk of injury to consumers as a result of tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. We carry insurance coverage in the types and amounts that we consider reasonably adequate to cover the risks we face. Our current third-party liability policies exclude claims related to products containing ephedra or kava, as well as additional ingredients. We are currently party to product liability lawsuits that involve excluded ingredients, and there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional lawsuits. We have established a captive insurance subsidiary to provide coverage for certain of our product liability risks, including excluded claims under our other policies. We have accrued an amount using the assistance of a third-party actuary that we believe is sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable liabilities related to product liability claims based on its history of such claims. However, the capitalization and income from premiums paid, both of which are contributed by us, could be inadequate to cover a claim, particularly a material claim that arises in the first few years of the captive's operations. If insurance coverage is inadequate or unavailable or premium costs continue to rise, we may face additional claims not covered by insurance, and claims that exceed coverage limits or that are not covered could have a material adverse effect on us. Market and Channel Risks Our success is linked to the size and growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market and an adverse change in the size or growth rate of that market could have a material adverse effect on us. Some manufacturers in our industry have experienced a slow-down in sales of nutritional supplements. An adverse change in size or growth rate of the vitamin, mineral and supplement market could have a material adverse effect on us. Underlying market conditions are subject to change based on economic conditions, consumer preferences and other factors that are beyond our control, including media attention and scientific research, which may be positive or negative. 16 Because a substantial majority of our sales are to or through health food stores, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of this channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the channel. Over 85% of our sales are in the United States and Canada. In those two markets, we sell our products primarily to or through health food stores. Because of this, we are dependent to a large degree upon the success of that channel as well as the success of specific retailers in the channel. There are some large chains of health food stores, such as Whole Foods and Vitamin Shoppe, but most health food stores are individual stores or very small chains. We rely on these health food stores to purchase, market, and sell our products. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, on the growth and success of the healthy foods channel, which is outside our control. There can be no assurance that the healthy foods channel will be able to grow or prosper as it faces price and service pressure from other channels, including the mass market. There can be no assurance that retailers in the healthy foods channel, in the aggregate, will respond or continue to respond to our stated loyalty to this channel. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies in our industry, and adverse publicity and negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could limit our ability to increase revenue and grow our business. Decisions about purchasing made by consumers of our products may be affected by adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the legality or quality of particular ingredients or products in general or of other companies or our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations, regardless of whether those investigations involve us. We are highly dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products as well as similar products distributed by other companies. Thus, the mere publication of reports asserting that such products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported. Publicity related to nutritional supplements may also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry and/or the healthy foods channel. Adverse publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention or of the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. We face intense competition from competitors that are larger, more established and that possess greater resources than we do, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to maintain sufficient market share to sustain profitability. Numerous manufacturers and retailers compete actively for consumers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete in this intensely competitive environment. In addition, nutritional supplements can be purchased in a wide variety of channels of distribution. These channels include mass market retail stores and the Internet. Because these markets generally have low barriers to entry, additional competitors could enter the market at any time. Private label products of our customers also provide competition to our products. Additional national or international companies may seek in the future to enter or to increase their presence in the healthy foods channel or the vitamin, mineral supplement market. Increased competition in either or both could have a material adverse effect on us. The nutritional supplement industry increasingly relies on intellectual property rights and although we seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, which claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Recently it is becoming more and more common for suppliers and competitors to apply for patents or develop proprietary technologies and processes. We seek to ensure that we do not infringe the intellectual property rights of others, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. These developments can prevent us from offering or supplying competitive products or 17 ingredients in the marketplace. They can also result in litigation or threatened litigation against us related to alleged or actual infringement of third-party rights. If an infringement claim is asserted or litigation is pursued, we may be required to obtain a license of rights, pay royalties on a retrospective or prospective basis, or terminate our manufacturing and marketing of our products that are alleged to have infringed. Litigation with respect to such matters can result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. There can be no assurance that third-party claims will not in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be affected adversely by increased utility and fuel costs. Increasing fuel costs may affect our results of operations adversely in that consumer traffic to health and natural food stores may be reduced and the costs of our sales may increase as we incur fuel costs in connection with our manufacturing operations and the transportation of goods from our warehouse and distribution facilities to health and natural food stores. Also, high oil costs can affect the cost of our raw materials and components and the competitive environment in which we operate may limit our ability to recover higher costs resulting from rising fuel prices. Business Strategy and Operational Risks If we are unable to retain key personnel, our ability to manage our business effectively and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Key management employees include Frank W. Gay II, Bruce R. Hough, Jeffrey A. Hinrichs, Gary M. Hume, Stanley E. Soper, Cory J. McQueen, Christopher B. Neuberger, Andrew W. Seelos and certain other employees. These key management employees are primarily responsible for our day-to-day operations, and we believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain them and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our management team. We do not have an employment agreement with any of our key management employees. The loss or limitation of the services of any of our key management employees or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a part of our business strategy, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. An element of our strategy includes expanding our product offerings, gaining shelf-space and gaining access to new skills and other resources through strategic acquisitions when attractive opportunities arise. Acquiring additional businesses and the implementation of other elements of our business strategy are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Some of these factors are within our control and some are outside our control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: •Any acquisition may result in significant expenditures of cash, stock and/or management resources, •Acquired businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations, •We may encounter difficulties and costs with the integration of the acquired businesses, •Management's attention may be diverted from other aspects of our business, •We may face unexpected problems entering geographic and product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience, •We may lose key employees of acquired or existing businesses, •We may incur liabilities and claims arising out of acquired businesses, •We may be unable to obtain financing, and 18 •We may incur indebtedness or issue additional capital stock which could be dilutive to holders of our common stock. There can be no assurance that attractive acquisition opportunities will be available to us, that we will be able to obtain financing for or otherwise consummate any acquisitions or that any acquisitions which are consummated will prove to be successful. There can be no assurance that we can successfully execute all aspects of our business strategy. Because we depend on outside suppliers with whom we do not have long-term agreements for raw materials, we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials for our products at favorable prices or at all, which could result in product shortages and back orders for our products, with a resulting loss of net sales and profitability. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. We also rely on third-party co-packers for some of our products. We have few, if any, agreements for the continued supply of these materials and products. A number of our products contain one or more ingredients that may only be available from a single source or supplier. Any of our suppliers could discontinue selling to us at any time. Although we believe that we could establish alternate sources for most of these materials, any delay in locating and establishing relationships with other sources could result in product shortages and back orders for the products, with a resulting loss of net sales. We are also subject to delays associated with raw materials. These can be caused by conditions not within our control, including: •weather, •crop conditions, •transportation interruptions, •strikes by supplier employees, and •natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We acquire many ingredients from suppliers outside of the United States. Purchasing these ingredients is subject to the risks generally associated with importing raw materials from other countries, including, among other factors, delays in shipments, changes in economic and political conditions, quality assurance, tariffs, trade disputes and foreign currency fluctuations. These factors could result in a delay in or disruption of the supply of certain raw materials. Any significant delay in or disruption of the supply of raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology and any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, reliability, and proper use of sophisticated and dependable information processing systems and management information technology. Our information technology systems are designed and selected in order to facilitate order entry and customer billing, maintain customer records, accurately track purchases and incentive payments, manage accounting, finance and manufacturing operations, generate reports, and provide customer service and technical support. Any interruption in these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Because we manufacture approximately 80% of our products, we are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities, which are subject to power failures, the breakdown, failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA. We manufacture approximately 80% of our products. As a result, we are dependent upon the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities in Ogden, Utah as well as Phoenix, Arizona. Those operations are subject to power failures, the breakdown, 19 failure, or substandard performance of equipment, the improper installation or operation of equipment, natural or other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements or directives of government agencies, including the FDA. There can be no assurance that the occurrence of these or any other operational problems at our facility would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others and while none of the lawsuits in which we are involved as of the date of this filing are reasonably estimated to be material, it is possible that future litigation could arise or that developments could occur in existing litigation that could have material adverse effects on us. We are party to a number of lawsuits that arise in the ordinary course of business and may become party to others. The possibility of such litigation, and its timing, is in large part outside our control. While none of the current lawsuits in which we are involved are reasonably estimable to be material as of the date of this filing, it is possible that future litigation could arise, or developments could occur in existing litigation, that could have material adverse effects on us. If we fail to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to manage our business, comply with Sarbanes-Oxley, obtain required auditor attestation and provide reliable financial reporting could be impaired and our management and auditors may be precluded from certifying effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our business reputation and cause our stock price to decline. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company's financial statements must attest to the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. Although our auditors did so attest in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, if in the future our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if that firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from the way we interpret them, then they may issue a report that is qualified or has a scope limitation. From time-to-time, in our ongoing effort to improve business and operational processes and our internal control over financial reporting, we or our auditors may determine that "significant deficiencies" or "material weaknesses" (as such terms are defined under accounting standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board) exist or that our internal control over financial reporting may otherwise require improvement. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses could impair our ability to provide financial statements that can be relied upon. If this were to occur, our business reputation could be harmed and investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and reports, either of which could have a significant negative impact on our stock price. Stock Market Risks The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future in response to a variety of factors, including: •quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, •material announcements by us or our competitors, •governmental regulatory action, •negative or positive publicity involving us or the nutritional supplement industry generally, •general economic downturns, 20 •announcements by official or unofficial health and medical authorities, •consumer preferences generally, or •other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices of many nutritional supplement companies and which have, in certain cases, not had a strong correlation to the operating performance of these companies. General economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations in the United States or abroad, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our operating results in future quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If that were to occur, the price of our common stock would likely decline, perhaps substantially. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff. 