Item 1A. Risk Factors We depend on our senior executives. Our success largely depends on the efforts and ability of our senior executive team. Our senior executive team developed and implemented our benchmarking model and has many years of experience in the office technology solutions industry and in the acquisition and integration of office technology solutions dealers. We do not carry key-person insurance on the life of any of our senior executives. The loss or interruption of the services of any one of our senior executives could disrupt operations, divert the attention of our other senior executives or otherwise could have an adverse effect on us. We depend on the presidents of our core companies. We depend on our core company presidents to operate our business and integrate acquired businesses profitably and timely. Our localized management structure depends on the ability of these core company presidents to effectively and efficiently manage our businesses. Our core company presidents generally have extensive industry experience and long-standing relationships with the customers in the regions they serve. The loss of any of our core company presidents could result in the loss of these valuable relationships, disrupt operations, divert the attention of our senior executives and adversely impact our revenues. Our markets are highly competitive. We operate in highly competitive markets, which force us to compete aggressively for customers. Our competitors in the automated office equipment market who sell to the middle-market include large, independent dealers, IKON Office Solutions, and to a lesser extent, Xerox, Danka and Oce/Imagistics. Our competition also includes manufacturers’ sales and service divisions, office superstores and consumer electronics chains. In the network integration solutions market we compete in the distribution of computer and network equipment with information technology direct marketers, including CDW, Insight and PC Connection; direct sellers such as Dell and Gateway; the sales and service divisions of companies such as Hewlett-Packard; and independent value-added resellers. Generally, information technology direct marketers are marketers of multi-brand computers and related technology products in the office technology solutions industry. Their business customers, like ours, are concentrated in the middle-market, and they access these customers through phone, fax and the Internet. In the delivery of services accompanying these products, we compete with smaller companies with regional or local operations, and the in-house capabilities of our customers. Our competitors in the electronic presentation systems market include information technology direct marketers and local distributors, manufacturers’ sales and service divisions, office superstores and consumer electronics chains. Some competitors have greater financial and personnel resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may have greater pricing flexibility, offer customers more locations and be able to devote more personnel to markets in which we compete. Competition from large, national competitors is likely to increase as we seek to attract additional customers and expand our markets geographically. Competition from large, national competitors will also increase if our industry continues to consolidate. As competition in our industry grows, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources to compete effectively. 9 Table of Contents Our indebtedness results in significant debt service obligations and limitations. We have significant debt service obligations. Substantially all of our real and personal property used in our business operations secures our obligations under our credit facilities. Our indebtedness may pose important consequences to investors, including the risks that: • we will use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • increases in our borrowings under our credit facilities may make it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations; • some of our borrowings under our credit facilities may bear interest at variable rates, which could create higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase; • our degree of leverage may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressure and could reduce our flexibility in responding to changes in business and economic conditions; and • our degree of leverage may hinder our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and could make us more vulnerable to downturns in the economy or in our industry. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay acquisitions and other capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt, or seek additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that these remedies would be available or satisfactory. Our cash flow from operations will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors which may be beyond our control. Our business depends on our vendor relationships and the availability of products. The majority of our revenues come from the sale of office technology solutions equipment and from service and supply contracts for this equipment. As a result, our success depends on our access to reliable sources of equipment, parts and supplies at competitive prices. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, we purchased approximately 20%, 19% and 11% of our equipment, parts and supplies from Ricoh and its family of products, Konica Minolta and Sharp, respectively. In addition, we also receive incentives from these and other key vendors related to volume rebates, cooperative advertising allowances and other programs and agreements. There is no guarantee that Ricoh and its family of products, Konica Minolta, Sharp, or any of our other vendors will continue to sell their products to us, or that they will do so at competitive prices. There is also no assurance that they will continue to offer us the vendor incentive programs we have received historically. Finally, other factors, including reduced access to capital resulting from economic conditions, may impair our vendors’ ability to provide products in a timely manner or at competitive prices. Technological developments will affect our business. We must continue to respond to the rapidly changing environment in the office technology solutions industry. Our business would be adversely affected if we or our suppliers fail to anticipate which products or technologies will gain market acceptance or if we cannot sell these products at competitive prices. We cannot be certain that manufacturers of popular products will permit us to market their newly developed equipment. In addition, new products containing new technology may be sold through other channels of distribution. Technological advancements may result in lower per unit costs, which in turn may reduce our revenues. Similarly, reliability improvements may reduce our service revenues. Lastly, because we incur increased expenses to train our sales and service personnel on any new technologies, our operating margins may be negatively affected. 10 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to the substantial amount of goodwill we carry as a result of our acquisition activity. As a result of our acquisition activity, we have recorded a substantial amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. Effective April 1, 2001, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS No. 142 requires, among other things, that companies no longer amortize goodwill, but instead test goodwill for impairment on a periodic basis. Impairment of goodwill could occur if the “carrying amount” (as that term is used in SFAS No. 142) of any of our core companies exceeds its fair value, determined in accordance with SFAS No. 142. Such an event could result from a large number of factors, many of which are not in our control. Any goodwill impairments identified would be treated as a noncash operating charge for the period during which the impairment is identified and would adversely affect our quarterly operating results. Quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations may lead to volatility in the market price of our common stock and, in future quarters, our results of operations could be below the expectations of the public market. If our results of operations are below the expectations of the public market, the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected. Difficulties in integrating businesses we acquire into our operations may demand time and attention from our senior management. Integrating businesses we acquire may involve unanticipated delays, costs and/or other operational and financial problems. Successful integration of the businesses we acquire depends on a number of factors, including our ability to transition acquired businesses to our management information systems and the ability of our core companies to integrate acquired satellite businesses into their operations. In integrating businesses we acquire, we may not achieve expected economies of scale or profitability or realize sufficient revenues to justify our investment. For example, if we are unable to increase the sales force productivity at businesses we acquire as quickly as we expect, our operating results may not justify our investment in such businesses. If we encounter unexpected problems at one of the companies we acquire as we try to integrate it into our business, our senior management may be required to expend significant time and attention to address the problems, which would divert their time and attention from other aspects of our business. We depend on our primary lease financing partner. In our fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, over 86% of our automated office equipment sales were financed for our customers by third-party leasing companies, such as GE. For fiscal year 2006, the GE program accounted for the majority of all of our automated office equipment lease financing arrangements. These lease financing arrangements permit our customers to lease equipment without having to purchase the equipment with cash. This, in turn, generates sales and service revenue for us. Our amended and restated agreement entered into on January 21, 2004 with GE has a term of three and one half years, and there is no assurance that GE will renew the agreement on terms as favorable to us as those contained in our current agreement, or at all. If GE terminates or fails to renew our financing arrangements, we would need alternative sources of financing for our customers. There is no guarantee we could find an alternative source of financing for our customers. Our inability to provide such financing would likely adversely impact our business. We are subject to government regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Adverse changes in these laws could result in increased costs and adversely affect our financial results. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt covenants may delay or prevent a takeover of us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation allows us to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock that has rights senior to our common stock. Other provisions, including those under Delaware corporate law, impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. In addition, some of our debt covenants may delay, defer or prevent a change in control. 11 Table of Contents You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements made by us. We have made forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K, in particular under the caption entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. You can find many of these forward-looking statements by looking for words such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “may,” “will,” “continue,” “project,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan” or similar expressions in this Form 10-K. In particular, forward-looking statements include, among others, statements about the following: • Our business strategy; • Our acquisition strategy; • Our expected financial position and operating results; • The projected size of our markets; and • Our financing plans. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, those listed in this section entitled “Risk Factors” and the following: • General economic and business conditions, both nationally and in our markets; • Acts of war or terrorism or other geopolitical events; • Adverse changes in international markets effecting the ability of our vendors to supply us with equipment; • Adverse changes in interest rates or the performance of the financial markets; • Lack of appropriate acquisition opportunities; • Adverse changes in laws and regulations effecting our business; and • Adverse changes in the trends in our business. The foregoing list is not exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements in this Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements attributable to us, or to persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Form 10-K may not happen. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 