Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Corporation are described below. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones affecting the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Corporation's business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation's financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Our net income depends primarily upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowed funds. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. We expect that we will periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities. That means either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce our net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce our net interest income. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. 7 We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations. Our business strategy calls for continued expansion. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new branch locations, successfully attract deposits to existing and new branches, and identify favorable loan and investment opportunities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to manage our growth, which may adversely impact our financial results. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open new branches in our existing and target markets. However, we may be unable to identify attractive locations on terms favorable to us or to hire qualified management to operate the new branches. In addition, the organizational and overhead costs may be greater than we anticipated or we may not be able to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to open new branches. New branches may take longer than expected to reach profitability, and we cannot assure that they will become profitable. The additional costs of starting new branches may adversely impact our financial results. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. The Corporation is required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. The Corporation may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth. The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside the Corporation's control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, the Corporation cannot assure you of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to the Corporation. If the Corporation cannot raise additional capital when needed, the ability to further expand its operations could be materially impaired. Our exposure to credit risk could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. There are certain risks inherent in making loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid, risks resulting from changes in the economy, risks inherent in dealing with borrowers and, in the case of a loan backed by collateral, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area may have an adverse effect on our earnings. Substantially all of our business is with customers located within Morris, Somerset and Hunterdon Counties and contiguous counties. Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized businesses, most of whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers' ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our financial condition and performance. Further, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of our loans under secured. If we are required to liquidate the collateral to satisfy the debt securing a loan during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses were not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, national and regional economic conditions, and historical loss experience and delinquency trends among loan types. However, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty and we cannot assure you that charge-offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. Factors that require an increase in our allowance for loan losses could reduce our earnings. 8 Competition from other financial institutions in originating loans and attracting deposits may adversely affect our profitability. We face substantial competition in originating loans. This competition comes principally from other banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking companies and other lenders. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources and higher lending limits, a wider geographic presence, and more accessible branch office locations. In attracting deposits, we face substantial competition from other insured depository institutions such as banks, savings institutions and credit unions, as well as institutions offering uninsured investment alternatives, including money market funds. Many of our competitors enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, more aggressive marketing campaigns, better brand recognition and more branch locations. These competitors may offer higher interest rates than we do, which could decrease the deposits that we attract or require us to increase our rates to retain existing deposits or attract new deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect our ability to generate the funds necessary for lending operations and increase our cost of funds. We also compete with non-bank providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations, which may offer more favorable terms. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern our operations. As a result, such non-bank competitors may have advantages over us in providing certain products and services. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is extensively regulated. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, and the FDIC deposit insurance funds, not the shareholders of the Corporation. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance and the Federal Reserve Bank. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The bank regulatory agencies possess broad authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements, which involve both quantitative measures of our assets and liabilities and qualitative judgments by regulators regarding risks and other factors. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements or comply with other regulations could result in actions by regulators that could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or otherwise adversely impact operations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to offer new products and services, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory spreads and impose additional costs on us. The Bank is also subject to a number of Federal laws, which, among other things, require it to lend to various sectors of the economy and population, and establish and maintain comprehensive programs relating to anti-money laundering and customer identification. The Bank's compliance with these laws will be considered by the Federal banking regulators when reviewing bank merger and bank holding company acquisitions or commence new activities or make new investment in reliance on the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. As a public company, we are also subject to the corporate governance standards set forth in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as any rules or regulations promulgated by the SEC or the American Stock Exchange. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 