Item 1A. Risk Factors: The following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not know about currently, or that we currently believe are less significant, may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is influenced significantly by cyclical macroeconomic factors which are difficult to predict. Our revenue is generated predominantly from the office furniture industry, and demand for office furniture is influenced heavily by a variety of macroeconomic factors, such as corporate profits, non-residential fixed investment, white-collar employment and commercial office construction and vacancy rates. During the past 10 years, the U.S. office furniture industry has gone through two major downturns, with consumption declining by more than 30% from calendar year 2000 to 2003 and again from 2007 to 2009, according to the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer’s Association. During these downturns, our revenue declined in similar proportion and our profitability was significantly reduced. We have made a number of changes to adapt our business model to these cycles, but our profitability could be impacted in the future by cyclical downturns. In addition, the pace of industry recovery after a cyclical downturn may vary, including by geography or vertical market. These macroeconomic factors are difficult to predict, and if we are unsuccessful in adapting our business as economic cyclical changes occur, our results may be adversely affected. Failure to respond to changes in workplace trends and the competitive landscape may adversely affect our revenue and profits. Advances in technology, the globalization of business and shifts in work styles and behaviors are changing the world of work and may have a significant impact on the types of workplace products and services purchased by our customers and the geographic location of the demand. For example, in recent years, these trends have resulted in a reduction in the amount of office floor space allocated per employee, a reduction in size (and price) of a typical workstation and an increase in work occurring in a variety of locations beyond the traditional office. The confluence of these factors could attract new competitors from outside the traditional office furniture industry offering products and services which compete with those offered by us and our dealers. In addition, the traditional office furniture industry is highly competitive, with a number of competitors offering similar categories of products. We compete on a variety of factors, including: brand recognition and reputation, insight from our research, product design and features, price, lead time, delivery and service, product quality, strength of dealers and other distributors and relationships with customers and key influencers, such as architects, designers and facility managers. If we are unsuccessful in developing and offering products which respond to changes in workplace trends, or we or our dealers are unsuccessful in competing with existing competitors and new competitive offerings which could arise from outside our industry, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. 8 We may not be able to successfully develop, implement and manage our diversification and growth strategies. Our longer-term success depends on our ability to successfully develop, implement and manage strategies that will preserve our position as the world’s largest office furniture manufacturer, as well as expand our offerings into adjacent and emerging markets. In particular, our diversification and growth strategies include: • translating our research regarding the world of work into innovative solutions which address market needs, • continuing our expansion into adjacent markets such as smaller companies, healthcare clinical spaces and classrooms, • growing our market share in emerging markets such as China, India and the Middle East, • investing in acquisitions and new business ventures and • developing new alliances and additional channels of distribution. If these strategies are not sufficient to diversify and expand our revenue, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by changes in raw material and commodity costs. We procure raw materials (including steel, aluminum, other metals, wood, particleboard and petroleum-based products) from a significant number of sources globally. These raw materials are not rare or unique to our industry. The costs of these commodities, as well as fuel and energy costs, have fluctuated significantly in recent years due to changes in global supply and demand, which can also cause supply interruptions. In the short-term, rapid increases in raw material and commodity costs can be very difficult to offset with price increases because of existing contractual commitments with our customers, and it is difficult to find effective financial instruments to hedge against such changes. As a result, our gross margins can be adversely affected by short-term fluctuations in these costs. Also, if we are not successful in passing along higher raw material and commodity costs to our customers over the longer-term because of competitive pressures, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Our global presence subjects us to risks that may negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We have manufacturing facilities and sales, administrative and shared services offices in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our success depends on our ability to manage the complexity associated with designing, developing, manufacturing and selling our solutions in a variety of countries. Our global presence is also subject to market risks, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • differing business practices, cultural factors and regulatory requirements, • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and currency controls, • political, social and economic instability, natural disasters, security concerns, including terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest, and global health issues and • intellectual property protection challenges. Our continuing efforts to improve our business model could result in additional restructuring costs and may result in customer disruption. Over the past decade, we have implemented significant restructuring actions to transform our business through the reinvention of our industrial system and white collar processes. While we believe we have made significant progress, we continue to evolve and optimize our business model to be more 9 flexible and agile in meeting changing demand, and incremental restructuring actions may be necessary. The success of our restructuring initiatives is dependent on several factors, including our ability to manage these actions without disrupting existing customer commitments. Further, these actions may take longer than anticipated and may distract management from other activities, and we may not fully realize the expected benefits of our restructuring activities, either of which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are increasingly reliant on a global network of suppliers. Our migration to a less vertically integrated manufacturing model has increased our dependency on a global network of suppliers. We are reliant on the timely flow of raw materials, components and finished goods from third-party suppliers. The flow of such materials, components and goods may be affected by: • fluctuations in the availability and quality of raw materials, • the financial solvency of our suppliers and their supply chains, • disruptions caused by labor activities and • damage and loss of production from accidents, natural disasters and other causes. Any disruptions in the supply and delivery of raw materials, component parts and finished goods or deficiencies in our ability to manage our global network of suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely largely on a network of over 650 independent and company-owned dealers to market, deliver and install our products to customers. From time to time, we or a dealer may choose to terminate our relationship, or the dealer could face financial insolvency or difficulty in transitioning to new ownership. Our business is influenced by our ability to initiate and manage new and existing relationships with dealers, and establishing new dealers in a market can take considerable time and resources. Disruption of dealer coverage within a specific local market could have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. The loss or termination of a significant number of dealers or the inability to establish new dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In the event that a dealer in a strategic market experiences financial difficulty, we may choose to make financial investments in the dealership which would reduce the risk of disruption but increase our financial exposure. We may be required to record impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets which would adversely affect our results of operations. Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that an impairment may exist. Poor performance in portions of our business where we have goodwill or intangible assets, or declines in the market value of our equity, may result in impairment charges, which would adversely affect our profitability. There may be significant limitations to our utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. We have deferred tax asset values related to net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) totaling $63.5 which reside primarily in various non-U.S. jurisdictions and reflect a $32.6 valuation allowance. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations in the applicable jurisdiction or implement tax, business or other planning strategies to fully utilize the estimated value of our NOLs. We have NOLs in various currencies that are also subject to foreign exchange risk, which could reduce 10 the amount we may ultimately realize. Additionally, future changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws may limit our ability to fully utilize our NOLs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments: None. 