ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING SALEM We may choose not to pursue potentially more profitable business opportunities outside of our Christian, conservative news talk and family-themed formats, or not to broadcast programming that violates our programming standards, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are fundamentally committed to broadcasting, Internet and publishing formats and programming emphasizing Christian values, conservative family themes and news. We may choose not to switch to other formats or pursue potentially more profitable business opportunities due to this commitment. We do not intend to pursue business opportunities or broadcast programming that would conflict with our core commitment to Christian and family themes formats or that would violate our programming standards, even if such opportunities or programming would be more profitable. Our decision not to pursue other formats or broadcast programming inconsistent with our programming standards might result in lower operating revenues and profits than we might otherwise achieve. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS OPERATIONS We may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic conditions including the economic climate failing to improve. The risks associated with our businesses become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or recession, which are often accompanied by a decrease in advertising. A decline in the level of business activity of our advertisers could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margins. During economic slowdowns in the United States, many advertisers have reduced their advertising expenditures. The impact of slowdowns on our business is difficult to predict, but they may result in reductions in purchases of advertising. Our exposure to several risks increases with slowing economies or a recession, including but not limited to: • Increasing pressure to sell advertising and block programming time at discounted rates; • Increases in the length of time to collect receivables and higher risks that the accounts become uncollectible as our customers face tight credit markets; • Ministries are experiencing lower levels of donations that could negatively impact their ability to purchase and pay for block programming time; • We may not be able to find suitable replacements for ministries that can no longer purchase and pay for block programming; • Limitations on our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate requirements; • Limitations on our ability to pursue projects that could have been beneficial; and • Impairment losses on the value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets including FCC broadcast licenses, goodwill, and mastheads and impairment losses on other long-lived assets. We must respond to the rapid changes in technology, services and standards of our industry in order to remain competitive. The radio broadcast industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of competition from new media technologies and services. We cannot assure you that we will have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. Various new media technologies and services are being developed or introduced, including: • Satellite-delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in the introduction of new subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; • Audio programming by cable systems, direct-broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, content available over the Internet and other digital audio broadcast formats; • In-band on-channel digital radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; 16 Table of Contents • Low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets including additional low-power FM radio signals authorized in December 2010 under the Local Community Radio Act; • Mobile telephony; • High Definition radio; • Internet radio; and • Personal digital audio devices (e.g., iPods, mp3 players, audio via WiFi, mobile phones, WiMAX) or other emerging next-generation networks and technologies. We currently program one channel on SiriusXM. We also offer pod-casts and downloads of portions of our programming; however, we cannot assure you that this arrangement will be successful or enable us to adapt effectively to these new media technologies. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcast industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. The accounting treatment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets could cause future losses due to asset impairment. Under FASB ASC Topic 350 “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other,” indefinite-lived intangibles, including broadcast licenses, goodwill and mastheads are not amortized but instead are tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment. Impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset over its fair value. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives and are measured for impairment if events or circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. Impairment losses are recorded as operating expenses. We have incurred significant impairment losses in prior periods with regard to our indefinite-lived intangible assets. The valuation of intangible assets is subjective and based on estimates rather than precise calculations. The fair value measurements of our indefinite-lived intangible assets use significant unobservable inputs that reflect our own assumptions about the estimates that market participants would use in measuring fair value including assumptions about risk. If actual future results are less favorable than the assumptions and estimates we used, we are subject to future impairment charges, the amount of which may be material. Given the current economic environment and uncertainties that can negatively impact our business, there can be no assurance that our estimates and assumptions made for the purpose of our indefinite-lived intangible fair value estimates will prove to be accurate. The impairment charges we have recognized are non-cash in nature and did not violate covenants on our then existing credit facilities or Revolver. However, the potential for future impairment charges can be viewed as a negative factor with regard to forecasted future performance and cash flows. We believe that we have adequately considered the economic downturn in our valuation models and do not believe that the non-cash impairments in and of themselves are a liquidity risk. We may be unable to integrate the operations and management of acquired stations or businesses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. During 2010 and 2011, we spent $7.8 million and $9.2 million, respectively, on the acquisition of radio station and Internet businesses. We expect to make additional acquisitions of radio stations, Internet businesses or publishing entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations or management of acquired radio stations and businesses and realize anticipated revenue synergies, or the operations or management of stations and businesses that may be acquired in the future. Continued acquisitions will require us to manage a larger and likely more geographically diverse radio station, Internet and publishing portfolio than historically has been the case. Our inability to integrate and manage newly acquired radio stations, Internet businesses or publishing entities successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to implement our cluster strategy, we may not realize anticipated operating efficiencies. As part of our operating strategy, we attempt to realize efficiencies in operating costs and cross-selling of advertising by clustering the operations of two or more radio stations in a single market. However, there can be no assurance that this operating strategy will be successful. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the clustering of radio stations in one market will not result in downward pressure on advertising rates at one or more of the existing or new radio stations within the cluster. There can be no assurance that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase its current listening audiences and operating revenue in circumstances where we implement our clustering strategy. 17 Table of Contents Additionally, FCC rules and policies allow a broadcaster to own a number of radio stations in a given market and permit, within limits, joint arrangements with other stations in a market relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations. We believe that radio stations that elect to take advantage of these clustering opportunities may have lower operating costs and may be able to offer advertisers more attractive rates and services. The future development of our business in new markets, as well as the maintenance of our business growth in those markets in which we do not currently have radio station clusters, may be negatively impacted by competitors who are taking or may take advantage of these clustering opportunities by operating multiple radio stations within markets. We base capital allocation decisions primarily on our analysis of the predicted internal rate of return. If the estimates and assumptions we use in calculating the internal rate of return are inaccurate, our capital may be inefficiently allocated. If we fail to appropriately allocate our capital, our growth rate and financial results will be adversely affected. We continually seek opportunities for growth by increasing the strength and number of our broadcast signals, increasing the number of page-views on our web platform and increasing the subscriber base of our magazines. In order to realize these growth opportunities, we must rely on continued technical improvements to expand our broadcasting, Internet and publication footprint. When deciding which opportunities to pursue, we must predict the internal rate of return associated with each project. Our calculations are based on certain estimates and assumptions that may not be realized. Accordingly, the calculation of internal rate of return may not be reflective of our actual returns. Our business is dependent upon the performance of key employees, on-air talent and program hosts. Our business is dependent upon the performance and continued efforts of certain key individuals, including Edward G. Atsinger III, our Chief Executive Officer, and Stuart W. Epperson, our Chairman of the Board. The loss of the services of such key individuals could have a material adverse effect upon us. We enter into employment agreements with such key individuals. Mr. Epperson has radio interests unrelated to Salem’s operations that will continue to impose demands on his time. Mr. Atsinger has an interest in an aviation business unrelated to Salem’s operations that will continue to impose demands on his time. We also employ or independently contract with several on-air personalities and hosts of syndicated radio programs with significant loyal audiences on both a national level and in their respective markets. Several of our on-air personalities have a presence that extends beyond our radio platforms into other strategic areas. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our executive officers, key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we can give no assurance that all or any of these key employees will remain with us or will retain their audiences. Competition for these individuals is intense and many of our key employees are at-will employees who are under no legal obligation to remain with us. Our competitors may choose to extend offers to any of these individuals on terms that we may be unwilling to meet. In addition, any or all of our key employees may decide to leave for a variety of personal or other reasons beyond our control. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty of our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty is beyond our control and could limit our ability to generate revenues. Our syndicated programming is dependent upon maintenance of our transponder equipment, which is located at various customer sites. Delivery of our national programs is dependent upon transponder equipment that is located at various customer locations. The quality and durability of this equipment, as well as our ability to protect the equipment from damage, destruction or theft, directly impacts our ability to transmit programming. Losses to the equipment and any business interruption may not be fully insurable. Our advertising revenues in certain markets are ratings sensitive and subject to decline based on ratings agency projections. Arbitron uses their own technology to collect data for its ratings service. The Portable People Meter TM (PPMTM ) is a small device that does not require active manipulation by the end user and is capable of automatically measuring radio, television, Internet, satellite radio and satellite television signals that are encoded for the service by the broadcaster. The PPM offers a number of advantages over the traditional diary ratings collection system including ease of use, more reliable ratings data and shorter time periods between when advertising runs and when audience listening or viewing habits can be reported. In markets where we subscribe to Arbitron under the PPM, our ratings have been less consistent. It is not clear what long-term impact, if any, the PPM will have on our revenues for stations that subscribe to Arbitron. 18 Table of Contents If we cannot attract the anticipated listener, programmer and advertiser base for our newly acquired radio stations, we may not recoup associated operating costs or achieve profitability for these radio stations. We frequently acquire selected assets of radio stations that previously broadcast in formats other than our primary formats. We continue to program some of these stations in non-primary formats and we re-program others to one of our primary formats. During, and for a period after, the conversion of a radio station’s format, the radio station typically generates operating losses. The magnitude and duration of these losses depends on a number of factors, including the promotional and marketing costs associated with attracting listeners and advertisers to our radio station’s new format and the success of these efforts. There is no guarantee that the operation of these newly acquired stations or our operations in new formats will attract a sufficient listener and advertiser base. If we are not successful in attracting the listener and advertiser base we anticipate, we may not recoup associated operating costs or achieve profitability for these radio stations. If we do not maintain or increase our block programming revenues, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. The financial success of each of our radio stations that feature Christian Teaching and Talk programming is dependent, to a significant degree, upon our ability to generate revenue from the sale of block programming time to national and local religious and educational organizations. Block programming accounted for 41.5% of our net broadcast revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 40.3% of our net broadcast revenue for the same period of the prior year. We compete for this program revenue with a number of commercial and non-commercial radio stations. Due to the significant competition for this block programming, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current block programming revenue. If we are unable to maintain or grow our advertising revenues, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our radio stations, Internet sites and publications are to varying degrees dependent upon advertising for their revenues. In the advertising market, we compete for revenue with other commercial religious format and general format radio stations, as well as with other media outlets including broadcast and cable television, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, Internet and billboard advertising. Due to this significant competition, we may not be able to maintain or increase our current advertising revenue. Any sustained economic downturn could negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. We face significant competition, which we expect will continue to intensify, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position or market share. We operate in a highly competitive broadcast and media business. We compete for advertisers and customers with other radio broadcasters, as well as with other media sources including broadcast and cable television, newspapers and magazines, national and local digital services, outdoor advertising, direct mail, online marketing and media companies, social media platforms, web-based blogs, and mobile telephony devices. We face intense competition from a wide range of competitors, including online marketing and media companies, integrated social media platforms and other specialist and enthusiast websites. Our broadcast audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. Salem Web Network competes for visitors and advertisers with other companies that deliver on-line audio programming and Christian and conservative Internet content as well as providers of general market Internet sites. Our print magazines compete for readers and advertisers with other print publications including those that follow the Christian music industry and those that address themes of interest to church leadership and the Christian audience. Xulon Press™ competes for authors with other on-demand publishers including those focused exclusively on Christian book publishers. This competition could make it more difficult for us to provide value to our consumers, our advertisers and our content creators and result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, decreased website traffic and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Our business generates revenue from the sale of advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could seriously harm our business. We derive a substantial part of our total revenues from the sale of advertising. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, 43.1%, 43.3% and 43.0% of our total revenues, respectively, were generated from the sale of broadcast advertising. We are particularly dependent on revenue from our Los Angeles and Dallas clusters , which generated 16.9% and 17.2%, respectively, of our 19 Table of Contents total net advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, 15.8 %, and 18.8 %, respectively, of our total net advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 15.2% and 23.2% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Because substantial portions of our revenues are derived from local advertisers in these key markets, our ability to generate revenues in those markets could be adversely affected by local or regional economic downturns. If we are unable to continue to drive and increase visitors to our owned and operated websites and to our customer websites and convert these visitors into repeat users and customers cost-effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We attract traffic to our owned and operated websites by offering content that is highly specific and that we believe to be relevant to our audiences. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to create and distribute high-quality, commercially valuable content in a cost effective manner at scale that connects consumers with content that meets their specific interests and enables them to share and interact with the content and supporting communities. We may not be able to create content in a cost effective manner or that meets rapidly changing consumer demand in a timely manner, if at all. Any such failure to do so could adversely affect user and customer experiences and reduce traffic driven to our websites that would adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our owned and operated websites and to our customer websites, neither we nor our advertisers and customers may be able to monetize this traffic or otherwise retain consumers. Our failure to do so could result in decreases in customers and related advertising revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. New technologies may increase competition with our broadcasting operations Our radio broadcasting business faces increasing competition from new technologies, such as broadband wireless, satellite radio and audio broadcasting by cable television systems, as well as new customer products, such as portable digital audio players and smart mobile phones. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with our radio stations for audience share and advertising revenues. The FCC also has approved new technologies for use in the radio broadcasting industry, including the terrestrial delivery of digital audio broadcasting, which significantly enhances the sound quality of radio broadcasts. We are unable to predict the effect that such technologies and related services and products will have on our broadcasting operations, but the capital expenditures necessary to implement such technologies could be substantial. We cannot assure that we will continue to have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services to compete with other new technologies or services, and other companies employing such new technologies or services could increase competition with our businesses. The company must respond to changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies in order to remain competitive. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. Content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. There is a risk that the Company’s responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a “pay” basis, may not be adopted by consumers. In publishing, the trending toward digital media may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on our products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating literary content. The Company’s failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. The interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems, or those of third parties that we rely upon, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The availability of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems, or those of third parties that we rely upon (co-location providers for data servers, storage devices, and network access) could result in interruptions in our service, which could reduce our revenue and profits. Our systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, third-party service providers may experience an interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason. If we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued data center hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to increase or maintain our Internet advertising revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We generate advertising revenue from the sale of display advertisements on our Internet sites. Our ability to increase or maintain this advertising revenue is largely dependent upon the number of users actively visiting our Internet sites. We also must increase user engagement with our advertisers in order to increase our advertising revenues. In addition, Internet advertising techniques are evolving, and if our technology and advertisement serving techniques do not evolve to meet the needs of advertisers, our advertising revenue could decline. Changes in our business model, advertising inventory or initiatives could also cause a decrease in our advertising revenue. In addition, Internet advertisements are reportedly becoming a means to distribute viruses over the Internet. If this practice becomes more prevalent, it could result in consumers becoming less inclined to click through online advertisements, which could adversely affect the demand for Internet advertising. We do not have long-term agreements with most of our advertisers. Any termination, change or decrease in our advertising relationships could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and profitability. If we do not maintain or increase our advertising revenues, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. If Internet search engines’ methodologies are modified, traffic to our websites and corresponding consumer origination volumes could decline. We depend in part on various Internet search engines, such as Google®, Bing®, Yahoo!®, and other search engines to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our websites through which we distribute our content by search engines is not entirely within our control. Changes in the methodologies used by search engines to display results could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of unique visitors who link to our websites. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites could negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If traffic on our websites declines, we may need more costly sources to replace lost traffic, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Wireless devices and mobile phones are used to access the Internet, and our online marketing services may not be as effective when accessed through these devices, which could cause harm to our business. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers has increased substantially in the last few years. Our websites were originally designed for persons accessing the Internet on a desktop or laptop computer. The smaller screens, lower resolution graphics and less convenient typing capabilities of these devices may make it more difficult for visitors to respond to our offerings. In addition, the cost of mobile advertising is relatively high and may not be cost-effective for our services. We must also ensure that our licensing arrangements with third-party content providers allow us to make this content available on these devices. If we cannot effectively make our content, products and services available on these devices, fewer consumers may access and use our content, products and services. In addition, if our services continue to be less effective or economically attractive for customers seeking to engage in advertising through these devices and this segment of Internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer Internet access, we will experience difficulty attracting website visitors and attracting and retaining customers and our operating results and business will be harmed. As a creator and a distributor of Internet content, we face potential liability and expenses for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute, or that are accessible via our owned and operated websites and our network of customer websites. If we are required to pay damages or expenses in connection with these legal claims, our operating results and business may be harmed. 21 Table of Contents We rely on the work product of various content creators to produce original content for our programs, websites and publications. We face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, negligence, unlawful practice of a licensed profession, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act and the Copyright Act. We may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that we do not create but that is posted to our owned and operated websites and to our network of customer websites by users and other third parties through forums, comments, personas and other social media features. In addition, it is also possible that visitors to our owned and operated websites and to our network of customer websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided on our owned and operated websites or our network of customer websites. These claims, whether brought in the United States or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. If we become subject to these or similar types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. While we run our content through a rigorous quality control process, including an automated plagiarism program, there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims based on the content of the materials that we create or distribute. Should the content distributed through our owned and operated websites and our network of customer websites violate the intellectual property rights of others or otherwise give rise to claims against us, we could be subject to substantial liability, which could have a negative impact on our business, revenue and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide software and related services necessary for the operation of our business. We incorporate and include third-party software into and with our applications and service offerings and expect to continue to do so. The operation of our applications and service offerings could be impaired if errors occur in the third-party software that we use. It may be more difficult for us to correct any defects in third-party software because the development and maintenance of the software is not within our control. Accordingly, our business could be adversely affected in the event of any errors in this software. There can be no assurance that any third-party licensors will continue to make their software available to us on acceptable terms, to invest the appropriate levels of resources in their software to maintain and enhance its capabilities, or to remain in business. Any impairment in our relationship with these third-party licensors could harm our ability to maintain and expand the reach of our service, increase listener hours and sell advertising each of which could harm our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology and network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or changing business requirements, which could lead to the loss of current and potential customers and advertisers, and cause us to incur expenses to make architectural changes. To be successful, our network infrastructure has to perform well and be reliable. The greater the user traffic and the greater the complexity of our products and services, the more computing power we will need. In the future, we may spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment, upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle increased traffic on our owned and operated websites and roll out new products and services. This expansion could be expensive and complex and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures. If we do not implement this expansion successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies and operational failures during its implementation, the quality of our products and services and our users’ experience could decline. This could damage our reputation and lead us to lose current and potential customers and advertisers. The costs associated with these adjustments to our architecture could harm our operating results. Cost increases, loss of traffic or failure to accommodate new technologies or changing business requirements could harm our business, revenue and financial condition. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins or similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our principal executive offices are located in Southern California, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the economy as a whole. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality service to our listeners, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, result in loss of existing or potential listeners and advertisers and increased maintenance costs, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We are controlled by a few controlling stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, Edward G. Atsinger III (Chief Executive Officer), Stuart W. Epperson (Chairman), Nancy A. Epperson (wife of Chairman) and Edward C. Atsinger (son of Chief Executive Officer) controlled approximately 85.5% in aggregate of the voting power of our capital stock. These four stockholders thus have the ability to control fundamental corporate transactions requiring stockholder approval, including but not limited to, the election of all of our directors, approval of merger transactions involving Salem and the sale of all or substantially all of Salem’s assets. The interests of any of these controlling stockholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders in a material manner. Our broadcasts often rely on content owned by third parties; obtaining such content could be costly and require us to enter into disadvantageous license or royalty arrangements. We rely heavily upon content and software owned by third parties in order to provide programming for our broadcasts. The cost of obtaining all necessary licenses and permission to use this third-party content and software continues to increase. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our broadcasting efforts, we expect that we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims for alleged infringement from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements that are not advantageous to us. In addition, parties making claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from broadcasting all or certain portions of individual radio broadcasts containing content owned by third parties. We also rely on software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used to perform key broadcasting and accounting functions. We could lose the right to use this software or it could be made available to us only on commercially unreasonable terms. Although we believe that alternative software is available from other third-party suppliers or internal developments, the loss of or inability to maintain any of these software licenses or the inability of the third parties to enhance in a timely and cost-effective manner their products in response to changing customer needs, industry standards or technological developments could result in limitations or delays in broadcasting or accounting for programming by us until equivalent software could be developed internally or identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business. Poor perception of our brand, business or industry could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on attracting a large audience to our radio stations, websites and publications. Our brand, business and reputation are vulnerable to poor perception. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain advertisers, customers and content creators, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brands could be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain name registrations relating to our brands. The registration and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to register or maintain relevant domain names. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from registering domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our services. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH REGULATIONS The restrictions on ownership of multiple stations in each market may prevent us from implementing our cluster strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to acquire additional radio stations in markets in which we already have existing stations. However, our ability to acquire, operate and integrate any such future acquisitions as part of a cluster is limited by antitrust laws, the Communications Act, FCC regulations and other applicable laws and regulations. Changes to any of these laws or regulations may affect our ability to acquire additional stations in radio markets where we already own one or more radio stations. In 1996, Congress passed legislation that requires the FCC to periodically conduct reviews of its regulations, including ones that govern the maximum number of radio stations an entity may own or have joint arrangements with relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations (the “Ownership Limits”). The FCC has adopted radio multiple ownership rules that depend upon the total number of radio stations located in the market in determining the applicable Ownership Limits. In 2003, the FCC modified its 23 Table of Contents definition of the term “market” and its method of determining the number of radio stations located in a “market.” Specifically, in larger markets the FCC replaced its “signal contour method” of defining a market and determining the number of radio stations located in the market with the use of “geographic markets” delineated by Arbitron, which is a commercial ratings service, as reported in the BIA database. For smaller radio markets for which Arbitron has not delineated a geographic market, the “signal contour method” continues to be the method of defining the market and determining the number of radio stations in the market. The methods the FCC uses to define markets affect the number of radio stations an entity may own or have joint arrangements with relating to programming, advertising sales and station operations in areas adjacent to a delineated Arbitron market. In 2010, the FCC opened a new phase of rulemaking concerning its broadcast ownership rules. The FCC sought public comments on the existing rules, including arguments and factual data on their impact on competition, localism, and diversity and held public meetings around the country on the issue of media ownership rules. The FCC 2010 quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules is ongoing and expected to be completed in 2012. We cannot predict the impact of possible modifications to the FCC’s local radio multiple ownership rules on our business operations. Likewise, we cannot predict whether there will be a change in the antitrust laws, Communications Act or other laws governing the ownership or operation of radio stations, or whether the FCC, DOJ or FTC will modify their regulations and policies governing or affecting the acquisition of additional radio stations in a market. In addition, we cannot predict whether a private party will challenge acquisitions we propose in the future. These events could adversely affect our ability to implement our cluster acquisition strategy. Government regulation of the broadcasting industry by the FTC, DOJ and FCC may limit our ability to acquire or dispose of radio stations and enter into certain agreements. The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies require prior FCC approval for transfers of control of, and assignments of, FCC broadcast licenses. The FTC and the DOJ evaluate transactions to determine whether those transactions should be challenged under federal antitrust laws. As we have gained a presence in a greater number of markets and percentage of the top 50 markets, our future proposed transactions may be subject to more frequent and aggressive review by the FTC or the DOJ due to market concentration concerns. This increased level of review may be accentuated in instances where we propose to engage in a transaction with parties who themselves have multiple stations in the relevant market. The FCC might not approve a proposed radio station acquisition or disposition when the DOJ has expressed market concentration concerns with respect to the buy or sell side of a given transaction, even if the proposed transaction would otherwise comply with the FCC’s numerical limits on in-market ownership. We cannot be sure that the DOJ or the FTC will not seek to prohibit or require the restructuring of our future acquisitions or dispositions on these or other bases. Were a complaint to be filed against us or other FCC licensees involved in a transaction with us, or an objection to the transaction itself, the FCC could delay the grant of, or refuse to grant, its consent to an assignment or transfer of control of licenses and effectively prohibit a proposed acquisition or disposition. As noted in the immediately preceding risk factor, the FCC’s local radio multiple ownership rules limit the maximum number of stations we may own or operate in a market. This may limit our ability to make future radio station acquisitions in certain markets. Additionally, this may limit our ability, in certain markets, to enter into agreements whereby we provide programming to or sell advertising on radio stations that we do not own. It could also limit our ability to sell stations to other entities that already own stations in some markets. We may be adversely affected by statutes dealing with indecency. The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act of 2005 enhances the FCC’s enforcement of its rules concerning the broadcast of obscene, indecent, or profane material became law. This legislation increased the FCC’s authority in this area to impose substantially higher monetary forfeiture penalties, up to $325,000 per violation and a total of $3,000,000 for any one incident. While we do not anticipate these increased penalties to impact us as significantly as some of our competitors given the nature of our programming, we could face increased costs in the form of fines as a result of this legislation. If we fail to maintain our broadcast licenses with the FCC, we would be prevented from operating affected radio stations. We operate each of our radio stations pursuant to one or more FCC broadcast licenses, generally of eight years’ duration. As each license expires, we apply for renewal of the license. However, we cannot be sure that any of our licenses will be renewed, and renewal is subject to challenge by third parties or to denial by the FCC. In evaluating a broadcast license renewal application, the FCC must grant the renewal if: (1) the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (2) there have been no serious violations of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules; and (3) there have been no other violations which, taken together, constitute a pattern 24 Table of Contents of abuse. If, however, the station fails to meet these standards, the FCC may deny the application, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, or grant the application on terms and conditions that are appropriate, including renewal for less than the maximum term otherwise allowed. The failure to renew any of our licenses would prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. If the FCC decides to include conditions or qualifications in any of our licenses, we may be limited in the manner in which we may operate the affected station. Proposed legislation requires radio broadcasters to pay higher royalties to record labels and recording artists. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), American Society Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”), and SESAC, Inc. These organizations negotiate with copyright users, collect royalties and distribute them to songwriters and music publishers. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through BMI, ASCAP and SESAC. On December 18, 2007, legislation was introduced to Congress that would require terrestrial radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. It is currently unknown what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, and what significance this royalty would have on our results from operations, cash flows or financial position. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data, or any failure to comply with such laws, could diminish the value of our services and cause us to lose customers and revenue. When a user visits our websites or certain pages of our customers’ websites, we use technologies, including “cookies,” to collect information related to the user, such as the user’s Internet Protocol, or IP, address, demographic information, and history of the user’s interactions with advertisements previously delivered by us. The information that we collect about users helps us deliver appropriate content and targeted advertising to the user. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. We post privacy policies on all of our owned and operated websites which set forth our policies and practices related to the collection and use of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with industry standards or laws or regulations could result in a loss of customer confidence in us, or result in actions against us by governmental entities or others, all of which could potentially cause us to lose customers and revenues. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. New laws may be enacted, or existing laws may be amended or re-interpreted, in a manner which limits our ability to analyze user data. If our access to user data is limited through legislation or any industry development, we may be unable to provide effective technologies and services to customers and we may lose customers and revenue. Certain U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that may subject us to claims or other remedies. Our failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations that are particularly relevant to our business address (a) privacy; (b) freedom of expression; (c) information security; (d) content and distribution of content, including liability for user reliance on such content; (e) intellectual property rights, including secondary liability for infringement by others; (f) domain name registration; and (g) online advertising and marketing, including email marketing and unsolicited commercial email. Many applicable laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet. Moreover, the applicability and scope of the laws that do address the Internet remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are evolving. Claims have been either threatened or filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, copyright infringement, cybersquatting and trademark infringement. In the future, claims may also be alleged against us based on tort claims and other theories based on our content, products and services or content generated by our users. We receive, process and store large amounts of personal user data on our owned and operated websites and from our freelance content creators. Our privacy and data security policies govern the collection, use, sharing, disclosure and protection of this data. The storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information and user data are subject to federal, state and international privacy laws, the purpose of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or 25 Table of Contents from the governing jurisdiction. If requirements regarding the manner in which certain personal information and other user data are processed and stored change significantly, our business may be adversely affected, impacting our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the level of privacy required for customer and other user data we collect. Our failure or the failure of various third-party vendors and service providers to comply with applicable privacy policies or applicable laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personal information or other user data could adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable developments could have an adverse affect on our operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specific to the Internet. Such laws and regulations cover taxation, user privacy, data collection and protection, copyrights, electronic contracts, sales procedures, automatic subscription renewals, credit card processing procedures, customer protections, broadband Internet access and content restrictions. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will be fully compliant in every jurisdiction, as it is not entirely clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as privacy, taxation and consumer protection apply to the Internet. Moreover, as Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state and foreign agencies becomes more likely. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the Internet, including laws limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease listener demand for our service offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future regulations, or changes in laws and regulations or their existing interpretations or applications, could also hinder our operational flexibility, raise compliance costs and result in additional historical or future liabilities for us, resulting in adverse impacts on our business and our operating results. Environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations may limit or restrict some of our operations. We must comply with various federal, state and local environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations that have a tendency to affect broadcast facilities differently than other uses. We and our properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety, as well as zoning restrictions that may affect, among other things, the ability for us to improve or relocate our radio broadcasting facilities. Historically, we have not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, existing laws, and those that may be applied in the future, or a finding of a violation of or liability, could require us to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict some of our operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS Capital requirements necessary to implement acquisitions could pose risks. We face competition from other companies for acquisition opportunities. If the prices sought by sellers of these companies were to rise, we may find fewer acceptable acquisition opportunities. In addition, the purchase price of possible acquisitions could require additional debt or equity financing on our part. Since the terms and availability of this financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed financing is too high or the terms of such financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the acquisition opportunity we are presented with, we may decide to forego that opportunity. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. If we are unable to execute our acquisition strategy successfully, our business may not continue to grow. We intend to continue to selectively acquire radio stations, complementary publishing and Internet media businesses. With respect to the acquisition of radio stations, our acquisition strategy has been, and will continue to focus primarily on, the acquisition of stations in the top 50 markets. However, we may not be able to identify and consummate future acquisitions successfully, and stations that we do acquire may not increase our station operating income or yield other anticipated benefits. Acquisitions in markets in which we already own stations may not increase our station operating income due to saturation of audience demand. Acquisitions in smaller markets may have less potential to increase operating revenues. With respect to our acquisition strategy of Internet and publishing businesses, we may not be able to identify and consummate the acquisition of future businesses successfully. Additionally, we may not be able to effectively integrate the operation of newly acquired businesses with our existing businesses that could result in reduced operating income from our businesses. Our failure to execute our acquisition strategy successfully in the future could limit our ability to continue to grow in terms of number of stations or profitability. 26 Table of Contents If we are not able to obtain financing or generate sufficient cash flows from operations, we may be unable to fund future acquisitions. We may require significant financing to fund our acquisition strategy. This financing may not be available to us. The availability of funds under our senior credit facility at any time is dependent upon, among other factors, our ability to satisfy financial covenants. Our future operating performance will be subject to financial, economic, business, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our future cash flows or borrowing capacity will be sufficient to allow us to complete future acquisitions or implement our business plan, which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. We have substantial debt and have the ability to incur additional debt. The principal and interest payment obligations of such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations under such debt. At December 31, 2011, we and our subsidiary guarantors have approximately $275.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, of which $235.0 million is outstanding on the 95/8% Notes and $9.0 million is outstanding on Affiliate Letters of Credit. The balance outstanding on the Revolver of approximately $31.0 million effectively ranks senior to the outstanding notes to the extent of the assets securing such debt. In addition, the terms of the Revolver and the indenture governing the 95/ 8% Notes permit us to incur additional indebtedness, including up to approximately $40 million that would be available under our Revolver, subject to our ability to meet certain borrowing conditions. Our substantial debt may have important consequences. For instance, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including those relating to the 95/8% Notes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our obligations and to reduce our total debt depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, and future financings may not be available to provide sufficient net proceeds, to meet these obligations or to successfully execute our business strategy. The agreements governing our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our business and adversely affect our ability to undertake certain corporate actions. The agreements governing our various debt obligations, including the indenture governing the 95/8% Notes and the agreements governing our Revolver, include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • declare or pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions to stockholders; • make investments; • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions; • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • sell or transfer assets. Our Revolver also requires us to comply with a number of financial ratios and covenants and restricts our ability to make certain capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take 27 Table of Contents advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the indenture governing the 95/ 8% Notes or the Revolver. An event of default under any of our debt agreements could permit some of our lenders, including the lenders under the Revolver, to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and the commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under our Revolver could be terminated. If we were unable to repay debt to our lenders, or are otherwise in default under any provision governing our outstanding secured debt obligations, our secured lenders could proceed against us and the subsidiary guarantors and against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of our other indebtedness may cause us to be unable to make interest payments on the 95/8% Notes and repay the principal amount of or repurchase the 95/8% Notes or may cause the subsidiary guarantors to be unable to make payments under the guarantees. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. However, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the 95/8% Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our Revolver, the 95/8% Notes, and the Affiliate Lines of Credit on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without this financing, we could be forced to sell assets or secure additional financing to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. However, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all and, in addition, the terms of our revolver and the indenture governing the 95/8% Notes limit our ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. In addition, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 