Risk Factors Different from our Core Tower Business, Including an Unproven Business Model—FiberTower’s business may produce results that are less than anticipated, resulting in a write-off of all or part of our investment in FiberTower. FiberTower commenced its principal operations in 2003 and has a limited operating history. FiberTower has an unproven business model and operates in the new and largely untested market for facilities-based wireless backhaul services. As such, FiberTower is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise and may not be able to operate successfully. FiberTower has generated losses since inception. We anticipate that FiberTower will continue to generate losses for the foreseeable future and may need additional funding to support the development of its business model. Although we believe that there will be demand for the backhaul solutions FiberTower provides to wireless carriers as the demand for additional wireless minutes of use increases, no assurances can be made that FiberTower will ever generate positive cash flows or that it will produce the results anticipated at the time of our investment. FiberTower’s failure to operate successfully, gain market share or accomplish its strategic objectives could negatively impact FiberTower’s ability to generate positive cash flows and could require us to write-off all or a portion of our investment in FiberTower. In addition, as a minority shareholder, we have a limited ability to affect FiberTower’s operations. As of December 31, 2005, we have recognized our pro-rata share of FiberTower’s losses in the aggregate amount of $15.1 million. Although we currently have no plans to do so, should we choose to liquidate our investment in FiberTower, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so at a desirable value. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Laws and Regulations Which May Change at Any Time and With Which We May Fail to Comply Regulate Our Business—If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business. A variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us. We Are Heavily Dependent on Our Senior Management—If we lose members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our business may be adversely affected. Our existing operations and continued future development depend to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of certain key individuals as employees, including our chief executive officer. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of these or other key personnel. If we were to lose any of these individuals, we may not be able to find or integrate appropriate replacements on a timely basis and we may be materially adversely affected. Variability In Demand For Network Services Business Reduces the Predictability of Our Results—Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand. The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results. Network services revenues declined as a percentage of our total revenues during 2003 and 2004, reflecting our efforts to de-emphasize this area of our business and increased competition. Such decline may continue in the foreseeable future. Emissions From Antennas on Our Sites or Wireless Devices May Create Health Risks—We may suffer from future claims if the radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our sites are demonstrated to cause negative health effects. The FCC and other government agencies impose requirements and other guidelines on its licensees relating to radio frequency emissions. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us. Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs and revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Competition Laws May Have Effects That Conflict with the Interests of Our Stockholders—Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and operative agreements and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to you. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • a staggered board of directors; • a shareholder rights agreement; • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings. Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, domestic and international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring towers or tower networks in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Shares Eligible For Future Sale—Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2006, we had 215,763,286 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we have reserved 18,983,792 shares of common stock for issuance under our various stock compensation plans, 639,990 shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants, 5,896,954 shares of common stock for the conversion of our 4% Convertible Senior Notes and 8,625,085 shares of common stock for the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. A small number of shareholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. If any one of these shareholders, or any group of our shareholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing shareholders might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline. The holders of our 6.25% Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative dividends at the rate of 6.25% per annum (approximately $19.9 million) payable on a quarterly basis. We have the option to pay the dividends on such series of preferred stock in cash or in shares of common stock. At various times in the past, we have paid such dividends with shares of common stock, and we may elect to continue to do so again in the future from time to time. The number of shares of common stock required to be issued to pay such dividends is dependent upon the current market value of our common stock at the time such dividend is required to be paid. Tower Industry Consolidation—Our participation or failure to participate in a tower industry consolidation may be harmful to our business. We contemplate that there are certain operational efficiencies and benefits to be gained through the acquisition of additional tower portfolios including through the consolidation of tower companies. There are numerous reasons we might not be able to participate in any such acquisition including competition for such assets, asset valuation and anti-competition restraints. Our failure or lack of participation in tower portfolio acquisitions including any tower industry consolidation could result in our inability to receive or fully partake of such efficiencies and benefits and may result in an adverse effect on our business. If we are involved in a tower portfolio acquisition including a consolidation of tower companies, then such transaction will have certain risks and costs that could adversely affect our business. The potential risks and costs include those relating to integration, diversion of management time and focus, and failure to achieve revenue targets, operational synergies and other benefits contemplated. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We Have Experienced Disputes With Customers and Suppliers—Such disputes may lead to increased tensions, damaged relationships or litigation which may result in the loss of a key customer or supplier. We have experienced certain conflicts or disputes with some of our customers and service providers. Most of these disputes relate to the interpretation of terms in our contracts. While we seek to resolve such conflicts amicably and have generally resolved customer and supplier disputes on commercially reasonable terms, such disputes may lead to increased tensions and damaged relationships between ourselves and these entities, some of whom are key customers or suppliers of ours. In addition, if we are unable to resolve these differences amicably, we may be forced to litigate these disputes in order to enforce or defend our rights. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of these disputes. Damaged relationships or litigation with our key customers or suppliers may lead to decreased revenues (including as a result of losing a customer) or increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Operations in Australia Expose Us to Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates—We may suffer losses as a result of changes in such currency exchange rates. We conduct business in the U.S. and Australia, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 8.1% of our consolidated revenues originated outside the U.S., all of which were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, principally Australian dollars. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our non-U.S. dollar operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. Available Information and Certifications We maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com/edgar.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committees are available through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com/edgar.cfm, and such information is also available in print to any shareholder who requests it. We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on June 20, 2005 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 