ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsMaking or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following are the key risk factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial ConditionFrom December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession with weaker than expected recovery to date. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged or deteriorating economic conditions could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:•A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer;•A decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities;•A decrease in the value of our investment securities;•A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;•An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; and•An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.Concentration in Real Estate Loans, Particularly in Upstate New York, May Increase Our Exposure to Credit RiskAt December 31, 2012, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $7.1 billion, or 36% of total loans. While our concentration of commercial real estate loans in Upstate New York has steadily decreased over the past three years, from 90% at December 31, 2009 to 50% at December 31, 2012, a large portion of this portfolio remains concentrated in this geographical area. At December 31, 2012, our portfolio of residential real estate loans (including home equity loans) totaled $6.4 billion, or 33% of total loans. While our concentration in these loans in Upstate New York has steadily decreased over the past three years, from 99% at December 31, 2010 to 41% at December 31, 2012, a large portion of this portfolio remains concentrated in this geographical area.A significant weakening in economic conditions in Upstate New York, such as unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on these loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, while home prices in Upstate New York have not seen the declines that other parts of the country have experienced over the past four to six years, a decline in real estate valuations in Upstate New York could lower the value of the collateral securing our residential real estate loans, leading to higher credit losses. 22Table of ContentsCommercial Real Estate and Business Loans Increase Our Exposure to Credit RisksAt December 31, 2012, our portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $12.0 billion, or 61% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan.Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase RiskOur success is impacted by the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, primarily Upstate New York, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Western Massachusetts. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on those loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results.A Large Portion of our Loan Portfolio Is Acquired and Was Not Underwritten by Us at OriginationAt December 31, 2012, 32% of our loan portfolio was acquired and was not underwritten by us at origination, and therefore is not necessarily reflective of our historical credit risk experience. We performed extensive credit due diligence prior to each acquisition and marked the loans to fair value upon acquisition, with such fair valuation considering expected credit losses that existed at the time of acquisition. Additionally, we evaluate the expected cash flows of these loans on a quarterly basis. However, there is a risk that credit losses could be larger than currently anticipated, thus adversely affecting our earnings.One-Third of Our Assets are Invested in Securities, With Over 16% in Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities, Ten Percent in Collateralized Loan Obligations and Over Seven Percent in Asset-Backed SecuritiesApproximately one-third of our assets have been invested in securities, currently with over 16% in commercial mortgage-backed securities, over ten percent in collateralized loan obligations and over seven percent in asset backed securities. These securities are structured investments with complex formulas to determine the amount of cash flows that get paid to holders of each security type within the various structures. Changes in expected cash flows due to factors such as changing credit experience of the underlying collateral, changes in interest rates or changes in prepayment speeds could affect the amount of interest and principal cash flows we receive and the amount of interest income that we recognize. Increases to the Provision for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to DecreaseOur customers might not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans might be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings.Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.23Table of ContentsWe Accept Deposits That Do Not Have a Fixed Term and Which May Be Withdrawn by the Customer at Any Time For Any ReasonAt December 31, 2012, we had $23.6 billion of deposit liabilities that have no maturity and, therefore, maybe withdrawn by the depositor at any time. These deposit liabilities include our checking, savings, and money market deposit accounts. The withdrawal of more deposits than we anticipate could have an adverse impact on our profitability as this source of funding, if not replaced by similar deposit funding, would need to be replaced with wholesale funding, the sale of interest earning assets, or a combination of these two actions. The replacement of deposit funding with wholesale funding could cause our overall cost of funding to increase, which would reduce our net interest income. The loss of interest earning assets would also reduce our net interest income. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial ConditionOur results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. While we have modeled rising interest rate scenarios and such scenarios result in an increase in our net interest income, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, resulting in a decrease in our net interest income.Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of our investment securities, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary.Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates resulting from actions taken by the Federal Reserve has caused an increase in prepayments of our loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. As prepayment speeds on mortgage related securities increase, the premium amortization increases prospectively, and additionally there would be an adjustment required under the application of the interest method of income recognition, and will therefore result in lower net interest income. We recorded two such adjustments to our mortgage related securities in 2012 totaling $25 million. Under these circumstances, we are also subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.If We Continue to Grow and Our Total Consolidated Assets Reach $50 Billion, We Will Become Subject to Stricter Prudential Standards Required by the Dodd-Frank Act for Large Bank Holding Companies.In December 2011, the Federal Reserve, pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, proposed rules applying stricter prudential standards to, among others, bank holding companies having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The stricter prudential standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity requirements, risk-management requirements, stress testing of capital, credit limits and early remediation regimes. Only the stress testing of capital rules have been adopted in final form. The Federal Reserve is also required by the Dodd-Frank Act to adopt rules regarding credit exposure reporting by these institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act permits, but does not require, the Federal Reserve to apply to these institutions heightened prudential standards in a number of other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosure.We completed four acquisitions during the last several years that have contributed substantially to our growth — our acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities related to 137 branches of HSBC (in 2012) and NewAlliance (in 2011), discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Overview” in this report, and Harleysville (in 2010), and 57 branches of National City Bank in Western Pennsylvania (2009), addressed in prior filings under the Exchange Act. At December 31, 2008, our total consolidated assets were $9.3 billion, as compared to $36.8 billion at December 31, 2012. If our assets reach the $50 billion threshold, whether driven by organic growth or future acquisitions, we will become subject to the stricter prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act.Growing By Acquisition Entails Certain RisksAs indicated above, we have grown substantially due to acquisitions in the last several years. Growth by acquisition involves risks. The success of our acquisitions may depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the acquired company with our businesses in a manner that does not result in decreased revenues 24Table of Contentsresulting from any disruption of existing customer relationships of the acquired company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than planned. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company we may acquire may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes.We May Incur Restructuring Charges That May Reduce Our EarningsWe continually evaluate the efficiency of our operations. From time to time, we may engage in certain cost-cutting measures to improve efficiency. Charges related to such efforts could adversely affect earnings in the period in which the charges are incurred.Strong Competition May Limit Our Growth and ProfitabilityCompetition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas.We May Not Be Able to Attract or Retain Skilled PeopleOur success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of financial institutions. Our compensation plans are an important element in the attraction and retention of key employees. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire these people or to retain them.We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and SupervisionWe are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the financial system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in civil or criminal sanctions by state and federal agencies, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of our banking charter, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about the regulation to which we are subject.Any Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect our EarningsThe amount that is assessed by the FDIC for deposit insurance is set by the FDIC based on a variety of factors. These include the DIF’s reserve ratio, the Bank’s assessment base, which is equal to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, and various inputs into the FDIC’s assessment rate calculation, including the Bank’s:•CAMELS rating,•criticized and classified assets,•capital levels, including the Tier 1 leverage ratio,•higher-risk assets, defined as construction and development loans, leveraged loans and securities, nontraditional mortgages and subprime consumer loans and, after April 1, 2013, higher risk securitizations,•ratio of core earnings to average assets,•ratio of core deposits to total liabilities,•liquidity ratio (as defined by the FDIC),•our projected shortfall (in event of failure) between projected insured deposits and the projected assets available to pay off projected insured deposits as a percentage of current domestic deposits,•amount of unsecured debt, including subordinated debt and debt issues by another depository institution, and•amount of brokered deposits.25Table of ContentsIf there are additional financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. See “Supervision and Regulation—Deposit Insurance” for more information about FDIC insurance premiums.We Are a Holding Company and Depend on Our Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other PaymentsWe are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of the OCC affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See “Payment of Dividends” above under “Supervision and Regulation.”In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.We Hold Certain Intangible Assets that Could Be Classified as Impaired in The Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired in the Future, Earnings Could DecreaseWe are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank’s ability to make dividend payments to us without prior regulatory approval.We Are Subject to a Variety of Operational Risks, Including Reputational Risk, Legal and Compliance Risk, the Risk of Fraud or Theft by Employees or Outsiders, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of OperationsWe are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems or disclosure of confidential proprietary information of our customers. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, sales practices, customer treatment, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about our other business.If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and the large transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, perhaps materially.26Table of ContentsWe May Be Adversely Affected By The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Security Breach We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure or interruption of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure or interruption will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. A breach in security of our systems, including a breach resulting from our newer online capabilities such as mobile banking, increases the potential for fraud losses. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Anti-takeover Laws and Certain Agreements and Charter Provisions May Adversely Affect Share ValueCertain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without our board of directors' approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of our common stock or shares of our preferred stock were those shares to become entitled to vote upon the election of two directors because of missed dividends, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquirer and thus could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy and Completeness Of Information About Customers And Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact Our Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Exposed to Risk of Environmental Liability When We Take Title to Property. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. 27Table of ContentsThe costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 