Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results depend in large part on further customer acceptance of our existing substrate products manufactured in China. As we are now manufacturing only in China, if the shift of our substrate manufacturing operations to China is to be successful, we will need our customers to qualify products manufactured in China. If we are unable to continue to achieve qualifications for these products, our China facility will be underutilized, our investments in China will not be recouped and we will be unable to lower our costs by moving to China. We may lose sales of our products to competitors who are not manufacturing in China, or whose operations in China have already been qualified by customers. If customers do not fully qualify our China production, we may lose additional customers and fail to achieve revenue growth. Furthermore, some customers reduced their orders from us until our surface quality is as good and consistent as that offered by competitors. As a result, some customers allocated their requirements for compound semiconductor substrates across more competitors and although our quality is improving, resulting in increased sales, we believe that we have lost revenue and market share as a result of these customer decisions, which we may be unable to recover. If we are unable to recover and retain our market share, we may be unable to grow our business. Defects in our products could diminish demand for our products. Our products are complex and may contain defects. We have experienced quality control problems with some of our products which caused customers to return products to us, reduce orders for our products, or both. Although our quality has improved, resulting in some increases in product sales, we believe that we continue to experience some reduction in orders as a result of our prior product quality problems. If we continue to experience quality control problems, or experience these or other problems in new products, customers may cancel or reduce orders or purchase products from our competitors, we may be unable to maintain or increase sales to our customers and sales of our products could decline. Defects in our products could cause us to incur higher manufacturing costs and suffer product returns and additional service expenses, all of which could adversely impact our operating results. If new products developed by us contain defects when released, our customers may be dissatisfied and we may suffer negative publicity or customer claims against us, lose sales or experience delays in market acceptance of our new products. If we fail to comply with environmental and safety regulations, we may be subject to significant fines or cessation of our operations; in addition, we could be subject to suits for personal injuries caused by hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations in all of our operating locations, including laws and regulations of China, including, but not limited to, regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of our products, the operation of our facilities, and the use of our real property. These laws, rules and regulations govern the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development, and sales demonstrations. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability for clean-up efforts, personal injury and fines or suspension or cessation of our operations, and/or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture or use of certain of our products, or may affect the operation of our facilities or use of our real property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In March 2001, we settled a claim made by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or Cal-OSHA, in an investigation primarily regarding impermissible levels of potentially 12 hazardous materials in certain areas of our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California for $200,415, and during 2004 we were the target of press allegations and correspondence purportedly on behalf of current and/or former employees concerning our environmental compliance programs and exposure of our employees to hazardous materials. In June 2005, a complaint was filed against us and a current and former officer, alleging personal injury, general negligence, intentional tort, wage loss and other damages, including punitive damages, as a result of exposure of defendants, who are former employees of AXT, including a minor child in utero, to high levels of gallium arsenide in gallium arsenide wafers, and methanol. There is a possibility that other current and/or former employees may bring additional litigation against us. Although we have put in place engineering, administrative and personnel protective equipment programs to address these issues, our ability to expand or continue to operate our present locations could be restricted or we could be required to acquire costly remediation equipment or incur other significant expenses. Existing or future changes in laws or regulations in the United States and China may require us to incur significant expenditures or liabilities, or may restrict our operations. In addition, our employees could be exposed to chemicals or other hazardous materials at our facilities and we may be subject to lawsuits seeking damages for wrongful death or personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to chemicals or hazardous materials at our facilities. Litigation is inherently uncertain and while we would expect to defend ourselves vigorously, it is possible that our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by such litigation now pending, and any additional litigation if brought against us. Existing or future litigation could result in significant judgments against us, or cause us to incur costly settlements. In June 2005, a complaint was filed against us and a current and former officer, alleging personal injury, general negligence, intentional tort, wage loss and other damages, including punitive damages, as a result of exposure of plaintiffs, who are former employees of AXT, including a minor child in utero, to high levels of gallium arsenide in gallium arsenide wafers, and methanol. In addition, we are defendants in an ongoing securities litigation matter. Litigation is inherently uncertain and while we would expect to defend ourselves vigorously, it is possible that our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by such litigation now pending, and any additional litigation if brought against us. In addition, response to such litigation could divert management’s attention from our business and operations, causing our business and financial results to suffer. We could incur defense or settlement costs in excess of the insurance covering such litigation matters, or such litigation could result in significant judgments against us, in excess of our insurance limits. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce gross margins. The market for compound semiconductor substrates is characterized by pressures on average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased competition or overcapacity. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience price pressures on our products, and if average selling prices decline in the future, our revenues and gross margins could decline. We may be unable to reduce the cost of our products sufficiently to counter the effect of lower selling prices and allow us to keep pace with competitive pricing pressures and our margins could be adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our key substrate customers would significantly hurt our operating results. A small number of substrate customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our total revenue. Our top five customers represented 37.5%, 30.1% and 28.9% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from a limited number of substrate customers. Our customers are not obligated to purchase a specified quantity of our products or to provide us with binding forecasts of 13 product purchases. In addition, our customers may reduce, delay or cancel orders at any time without any significant penalty, and during the past year, we have experienced slower bookings, significant push outs and cancellation of orders from some customers. If we lose a major customer or if a customer cancels, reduces or delays orders, our revenue would decline. In addition, customers that have accounted for significant revenue in the past may not continue to generate revenue for us in any future period. Any delay in scheduled shipments of our products could cause revenue to fall below our expectations and the expectations of market analysts or investors, causing our stock price to decline. We may incur claims or other liabilities or obligations related to our failure to follow requirements for testing of products and provision of testing data and information relating to customer requirements. Additionally, customers may cancel or reduce future shipments in response to these failures, or require re-qualifications. During the first quarter of 2004, we determined that we had not followed requirements for testing of products and provision of testing data and information relating to customer requirements. We notified affected customers concerning our findings, however, there can be no assurance that we will not incur customer claims or other liabilities or obligations in connection with this matter, nor, if we receive any such claims, that we will not have to restate results from prior periods. In addition, revenue in future periods may be adversely impacted if customers decide not to order from us as a result of this disclosure. We experienced several cancellations of future orders by customers pending further information regarding enhancements to our product testing and quality control systems. In addition, some customers are requiring additional qualification of our China operations before placing future orders with us. We cannot be sure that we will not receive additional cancellations of orders by other customers, or fail to win expected future orders from customers, as a result of our disclosure of our investigation conclusions, or that our customers will qualify our China operations and place future orders with us. Problems incurred by our joint ventures or venture partners could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations We have invested in five joint venture operations in China that produce products including 99.99% pure gallium (4N Ga), high purity gallium, arsenic, germanium, germanium dioxide, paralytic boron nitride (pBN) crucibles, and boron oxide. We purchase the materials produced by these ventures for our use and sell other portions of their production to third parties. Our ownership interest in these entities ranges from 25 percent to 83 percent. We consolidate the three ventures in which we own a majority interest and employ equity accounting for the two joint ventures in which we have a 25 percent interest. Several of these ventures occupy facilities within larger facilities owned and/or operated by one of the other venture partners. Several of these venture partners are engaged in other manufacturing activities at or near the same facility. In some facilities, we share access to certain functions, including water, treatment of hazardous waste or air quality treatment. If any of our joint venture partners in any of these five ventures experience problems with their operations, disruptions of our joint venture operations could result, having a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operation of our joint ventures, and correspondingly on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if any of our joint ventures or venture partners with whom our joint ventures share facilities are deemed to have violated applicable laws, rules or regulations governing the use, storage, discharge or disposal of hazardous chemicals during manufacturing, research and development, or sales demonstrations, the operations of our joint ventures could be adversely affected and we could be subject to substantial liability for clean-up efforts, personal injury and fines or suspension or cessation of our joint venture operations as a result of the actions of the joint ventures or other venture partners. Employees working at the operations of our joint ventures or the operations of any of the other venture partners could bring litigation against us as a result of actions taken at the joint venture or venture partner facilities, even though we are not directly controlling the operations, including actions for exposure to chemicals or other 14 hazardous materials at the facilities of our joint ventures or the facilities of any venture partner that are shared by our joint ventures. If litigation is brought against us, litigation is inherently uncertain and while we would expect to defend ourselves vigorously, it is possible that our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by such litigation if brought against us, particularly if, as a non-Chinese company, litigation with us is deemed advantageous. Even if we are not deemed responsible for the actions of the joint ventures or venture partners, litigation could be costly, time consuming to defend and divert management attention; in addition, pursuit of us could occur if we are deemed to be the most financially viable of the partners. Going forward, we believe that investing in additional joint ventures will be important to remaining competitive in our marketplace and ensuring a supply of critical raw materials. However, we may not be able to identify complementary joint venture opportunities or, even once opportunities are identified, we may not be able to reach agreement on the terms of the venture with the other venture partners. Additional joint ventures could cause us to incur contingent liabilities or other expenses, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Since all of our joint venture activity is expected to occur in China, these activities could subject us to a number of risks associated with conducting operations internationally, including: • difficulties in managing geographically disparate operations; • difficulties in enforcing agreements through non-U.S. legal systems; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export the venture products or sell into particular jurisdictions or impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; • political and economic instability, civil unrest or war; • terrorist activities that impact international commerce; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; • changing laws and policies affecting economic liberalization, foreign investment, currency convertibility or exchange rates, taxation or employment; and • nationalization of foreign owned assets, including intellectual property. Intellectual property infringement claims may be costly to resolve and could divert management attention. Other companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or may otherwise claim proprietary rights to technology necessary to our business. The markets in which we compete are comprised of competitors who in some cases hold substantial patent portfolios covering aspects of products that could be similar to ours. We could become subject to claims that we are infringing patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights of others. For example, we have previously been involved in two separate lawsuits alleging patent infringement, and could in the future be involved in similar litigation. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has experienced a downturn which has adversely impacted our operating results. Our continuing business depends in significant part upon manufacturers of electronic and opto-electronic semiconductor devices, as well as the current and anticipated market demand for such devices and products using such devices. As a supplier to the semiconductor industry, we are subject to the business cycles that characterize the industry. The timing, length and volatility of these cycles are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand 15 for semiconductors, the manufacturing capacity of these semiconductors and changes in the technology employed in the semiconductors. The rate of changes in demand, including end demand, is high, and the effect of these changes upon us occurs quickly, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in new technology. These industry cycles create pressure on our revenue, gross margin and net income (loss). The industry has in the past experienced periods of oversupply that result in significantly reduced demand and prices for semiconductor devices and components, including our products, both as a result of general economic changes and overcapacity. When these periods occur, our operating results and financial condition are adversely affected, and create pressure on our revenue, gross margins and net income (loss). Inventory buildups in telecommunications products and slower than expected sales of computer equipment resulted in overcapacity and led to reduced sales by our customers, and therefore reduced purchases of our products. During periods of weak demand such as those experienced over the past years, customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of products and/or cancel orders of component parts such as our products. Increased price competition has resulted, causing pressure on our net sales, gross margin and net income (loss). We experienced cancellations, price reductions, delays and push outs of orders, which have resulted in reduced revenues. If the economic downturn occurred again, further order cancellations, reductions in order size or delays in orders could occur and would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Actions to reduce our costs, such as those we have recently taken, may be insufficient to align our structure with prevailing business conditions. We may be required to undertake additional cost-cutting measures, and may be unable to invest in marketing, research and development and engineering at the levels we believe are necessary to maintain our competitive position. Our failure to make these investments could seriously harm our business. During periods of increasing demand for semiconductor devices, we must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and must be able to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees to meet demand. If we are unable to effectively manage our resources and production capacity during an industry upturn, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory. We must manage our inventory of component parts, work-in-process, and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements, while keeping inventory costs down and improving gross margins. Some of our products and supplies have in the past and may in the future become obsolete while in inventory due to changing customer specifications, or become excess inventory due to decreased demand for our products and an inability to sell the inventory within a foreseeable period. Furthermore, if current costs of production increase or sales prices drop below the standard prices at which we value inventory, we may need to take a charge for a reduction in inventory values. We have in the past, including during 2004, had to take inventory valuation and impairment charges. Any future unexpected changes in demand or increases in costs of production that cause us to take additional charges for un-saleable, obsolete or excess inventory, or to reduce inventory values, could adversely affect our results of operations. charges. The impact of changes in global economic conditions on our customers may cause us to fail to meet expectations, which would negatively impact the price of our stock. Our operating results can vary significantly based upon the impact of changes in global economic conditions on our customers. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends on the overall demand for our substrates, and we are particularly dependant on the market conditions for the wireless, solid-state illumination, fiber optics and telecommunications industries. Because our sales are primarily to 16 major corporate customers whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions, a softening of demand for products that use our substrates, caused by a weakening economy may result in decreased revenues. Customers may find themselves facing excess inventory from earlier purchases, and may defer or reconsider purchasing products due to the downturn in their business and in the general economy. If we have low product yields, the shipment of our products may be delayed and our operating results may be adversely impacted. Our products are manufactured using complex technologies, and the number of usable substrates we can produce can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: • impurities in the materials used; • contamination of the manufacturing environment; • substrate breakage; • equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing process; and • performance of personnel involved in the manufacturing process. If our yields decrease, our revenue could decline if we are unable to produce needed product on time while our manufacturing costs remain fixed, or could increase. We have experienced product shipment delays and difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on both new and older products, and delays and poor yields have adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future and we cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In particular, many of our manufacturing processes are new and are still being refined, which can result in lower yields. If we do not successfully develop new products to respond to rapidly changing customer requirements, our ability to generate revenue, obtain new customers, and retain existing customers may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to offer new products and product features that incorporate leading technology and respond to technological advances. In addition, our new products must meet customer needs and compete effectively on quality, price and performance. The life cycles of our products are difficult to predict because the markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. If our competitors introduce products employing new technologies or performance characteristics, our existing products could become obsolete and unmarketable. During the past two years, we have seen our competitors selling more substrates manufactured using a crystal growth technology similar to ours, which has eroded our technological differentiation. Other companies, including Triquent, are actively developing substrate materials that could be used to manufacture devices that could provide the same high-performance, low-power capabilities as GaAs- and InP-based devices at competitive prices. If these substrate materials or VGF-derived products are successfully developed and semiconductor device manufacturers adopt them, demand for our GaAs substrates could decline and our revenue could suffer. The development of new products can be a highly complex process, and we may experience delays in developing and introducing new products. Any significant delays could cause us to fail to timely introduce and gain market acceptance of new products. Further, the costs involved in researching, developing and engineering new products could be greater than anticipated. If we fail to offer new products or product enhancements or fail to achieve higher quality products, we may not generate sufficient revenue to offset our development costs and other expenses or meet our customers’ requirements. 17 Intense competition in the markets for our products could prevent us from increasing revenue and sustaining profitability. The markets for our products are intensely competitive. We face competition for our substrate products from other manufacturers of substrates, such as Freiberger, Hitachi Cable, Japan Energy and Sumitomo Electric and from semiconductor device manufacturers that produce substrates for their own use, and from companies, such as Triquent, that are actively developing alternative materials to GaAs and some semiconductor devices are being marketed using these materials. We believe that at least two of our competitors are shipping high volumes of GaAs substrates manufactured using a technique similar to our VGF technique. Other competitors may develop and begin using similar technology. If we are unable to compete effectively, our revenue may not increase and we may be unable to be profitable. We face many competitors that have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • greater experience in the business; • more manufacturing experience; • extensive intellectual property; • broader name recognition; and • significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Our competitors could develop new or enhanced products that are more effective than our products are. The level and intensity of competition has increased over the past year and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. Competitive pressures caused by the current economic conditions have resulted in reductions in the prices of our products, and continued or increased competition could reduce our market share, require us to further reduce the prices of our products, affect our ability to recover costs or result in reduced gross margins. Demand for our products may decrease if our customers experience difficulty manufacturing, marketing or selling their products. Our products are used as components in our customers’ products. Accordingly, demand for our products is subject to factors affecting the ability of our customers to successfully introduce and market their products, including: • the competition our customers face in their particular industries; • the technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing and management capabilities of our customers; • the financial and other resources of our customers; and • the inability of our customers to sell their products if they infringe third party intellectual property rights. If demand for the end user applications for which our products are used decreases, or our customers are unable to develop, market and sell their products, demand for our products will decrease. The financial condition of our customers may affect their ability to pay amounts owed to us. Many of our customers are facing business downturns that have reduced their cash balances and their prospects. We frequently allow our customers to pay for products we ship to them within 30 to 120 days after delivery. Subsequent to our shipping a product, some customers have been unable to make payments as due, reducing our cash balances and causing us to incur charges to allow for a possibility that some 18 accounts might not be paid. During 2004, a customer of one agent filed for bankruptcy protection. We incurred a charge equal to the amount owed us and believe that there is a substantial likelihood that we will not be able to recoup any of this amount. Other customers may also be forced to file for bankruptcy. If our customers do not pay their accounts when due, we will be required to incur charges that would reduce our earnings. We purchase critical raw materials and parts for our equipment from single or limited sources, and could lose sales if these sources fail to fill our needs. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials such as quartz tubing, polishing solutions, and paralytic boron nitride. Although several of these raw materials are purchased from suppliers in whom we hold an ownership interest, we generally purchase these materials through standard purchase orders and not pursuant to long-term supply contracts and no supplier guarantees supply of raw materials or equipment to us. If we lose any of our key suppliers, our manufacturing efforts could be significantly hampered and we could be prevented from timely producing and delivering products to our customers. We have in the past experienced delays obtaining critical raw materials and spare parts, including gallium, due to shortages of these materials. Although we hope to alleviate some of these delays and shortages as a result of our interests in our joint ventures, we may experience delays due to shortages of materials and may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of materials. These shortages and delays could result in higher materials costs and cause us to delay or reduce production of our products. If we have to delay or reduce production, we could fail to meet customer delivery schedules and our revenue and operating results could suffer. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments in raw materials suppliers, which may not be successful and may result in the loss of all or part of our investment. We have made investments through our five joint ventures in raw material suppliers in China, that provide us with opportunities to gain supply of key raw materials that are important to our substrate business. These affiliates each have a market beyond that provided by us. We do not have influence over all of these companies, each of which is located in China, and in some we have made only a strategic, minority investment. We may not be successful in achieving the financial, technological or commercial advantage upon which any given investment is premised, and we could end up losing all or part of our investment. Our substrate products have a long qualification cycle that makes it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our results. Customers typically place orders with us for our substrate products three months to a year or more after our initial contact with them. The sale of our products may be subject to delays due to our customers’ lengthy internal budgeting, approval and evaluation processes. During this time, we may incur substantial expenses and expend sales, marketing and management efforts while the customers evaluate our products. These expenditures may not result in sales of our products. If we do not achieve anticipated sales in a period as expected, we may experience an unplanned shortfall in our revenue. As a result, we may not be able to cover expenses, causing our operating results to vary. In addition, if a customer decides not to incorporate our products into its initial design, we may not have another opportunity to sell products to this customer for many months or even years. In the current competitive and economic climate, the average sales cycle for our products has lengthened even further and is expected to continue to make it difficult to accurately forecast our future sales. We anticipate that sales of any future substrate products will also have lengthy sales cycles and will, therefore, be subject to risks substantially similar to those inherent in the lengthy sales cycle of our current substrate products. 19 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose valuable assets or incur costly litigation. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our proprietary technology. However, we believe that, due to the rapid pace of technological innovation in the markets for our products, our ability to establish and maintain a position of technology leadership also depends on the skills of our development personnel. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, a third party could develop products or processes similar to ours. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our patents. We believe that at least two of our competitors have begun to ship GaAs substrates produced using a process similar to our VGF technique. Our competitors may also develop and patent improvements to the VGF technology upon which we rely, and thus may limit any exclusivity we enjoy by virtue of our patents or trade secrets. It is possible that pending or future United States or foreign patent applications made by us will not be approved, that our issued patents will not protect our intellectual property, or that third parties will challenge the ownership rights or the validity of our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may be more difficult to monitor the use of our intellectual property. Our competitors may be able to legitimately ascertain non-patented proprietary technology embedded in our systems. If this occurs, we may not be able to prevent the development of technology substantially similar to ours. We may have to resort to costly litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. Enforcing or defending our proprietary technology is expensive, could cause us to divert resources and may not prove successful. Our protective measures may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, and if we fail to enforce or protect our rights, we could lose valuable assets. For example, we have recently been involved in litigation with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. (“SEI”) in Japan as well as interference actions in the United States. We and SEI approved a settlement of this litigation during the fourth quarter of 2004 and the litigation was withdrawn and we abandoned the interference proceeding. We incurred an initial charge of approximately $1.4 million and will have to pay ongoing royalties to SEI on certain of our products. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international sales, and our ability to sustain and increase our international sales involves significant risks. Our revenue growth depends in part on the expansion of our international sales and operations. International sales represented 81% and 79% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that sales to customers outside the U.S. will continue to represent a significant portion of our revenue, particularly sales to customers in Asia. Currently, an increasing percentage of our sales are to customers headquartered in Asia. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located outside the U.S. Managing our global operations presents challenges, including periodic regional economic downturns, trade balance issues, varying business conditions and demands, political instability, variations in enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in different jurisdictions, differences in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses, changes in U.S. and international laws and regulations including U.S. export restrictions, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, the ability to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations, cultural differences, shipping delays and terrorist acts or acts of war, among other risks. Many of these challenges are present in China, which 20 represents a large potential market for semiconductor equipment and where we anticipate significant opportunity for growth. Global uncertainties with respect to: (i) economic growth rates in various countries; (ii) sustainability of demand for electronics products; (iii) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; (iv) price weakness for certain semiconductor devices; and (v) political instability in regions where we have operations may also affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on international sales involves a number of risks, including: • changes in tariffs, import or export restrictions and other trade barriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • longer periods to collect accounts receivable; • changes in export license requirements; • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, except for sales to our Japanese and some Taiwanese customers, which are denominated in Japanese yen. Thus, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products in non-U.S. markets and make our products more expensive than competitors’ products in these markets. Also, denominating some sales in Japanese yen subjects us to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. The functional currencies of our Chinese subsidiaries are the local currencies. We incur transaction gains or losses resulting from consolidation of expenses incurred in local currencies for these subsidiaries, as well as in translation of the assets and liabilities of these assets at each balance sheet date. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with international sales, our revenue, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because of power shortages in China, we may have to temporarily close our China operations, which would adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products, meet customer orders, and result in reduced revenues. The Chinese government faced a power crunch over the summer of 2004 and reported that power demand in 24 provinces outstripped supply in peak periods during the first four months of 2004. Instability in electrical supply caused sporadic outages among residential and commercial consumers. As a result, the Chinese government implemented tough measures in 2004 to ease the energy shortage. Provinces imposed power brownouts during 2004 to reduce electricity demand and some companies in Beijing were ordered to give their employees a week off to ease the pressure on power supply. The plants, most of which are state-owned, were closed and reopened on a staggered schedule to reduce power consumption during the capital’s hottest months during 2004. As a result we closed most of our operations for a week in late July 2004 in conformance with this policy. Although shortages requiring closure of facilities did not occur during summer 2005, if we are required to make additional temporary closures of our Beijing and joint venture operations at any time during 2006, we may be unable to manufacture our products, and would then be unable to meet customer orders except from inventory on hand. As a result, we could lose sales, adversely impacting our revenues, and our relationships with our customers could suffer, impacting our ability to generate future sales. In addition, if power is shut off at our Beijing operations at any time, either voluntarily or as a result of unplanned brownouts, during certain phases of our manufacturing process including our crystal growth phase, the work in process may be ruined and rendered unusable, causing us to incur expense that will not be covered by revenue, and negatively impacting our cost of goods sold and 21 gross margins. We are attempting to partially mitigate the potential effects of power outages by building inventory in anticipation of power outages during the summer. This inventory build is prepared to accommodate forecast demand rather specific customer orders. If the inventory we build is not ordered by customers, we may have to scrap these products and incur a cost which will reduce our gross margins. We need to continue to improve or implement our systems, procedures and controls and may not receive a favorable attestation report on our internal control systems by our independent registered public accounting firm. The requirements adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in response to the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and an attestation of these systems by our independent registered public accounting firm beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. This may be due earlier beginning with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 if our market capitalization increases above $75 million on the determining date on June 30, 2006. We are currently reviewing our internal control procedures and considering further documentation of such procedures that may be necessary. We are currently evaluating the extent to which any of our joint ventures may also be required to comply, if at all. We can give no assurances that our systems will satisfy the new requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or if required, that any of the systems of our joint ventures will meet such requirements, or that we will receive a favorable review and attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, the shift of our manufacturing operations to China has placed and continues to place a significant strain on our operations and management resources. We have upgraded our inventory control systems and may implement additional systems relating to consolidation of our financial results, but continue to rely on certain manual processes in our operations and in connection with consolidation of our financial results. If we fail to manage these changes effectively, our operations may be disrupted. To manage our business effectively, we may need to implement additional and improved management information systems, further develop our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls, add experienced senior level managers, and maintain close coordination among our executive, engineering, accounting, marketing, sales and operations organizations. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to cause our general and administrative expenses to increase and impact our future financial position and results of operations. In order to comply with rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the SEC, as well as changes to listing standards adopted by NASDAQ, and accounting changes adopted affecting accounting for stock-based compensation we may be required to increase our internal controls, hire additional personnel and additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which will cause our general and administrative costs to increase. Insurers may increase premiums as a result of the high claims rates they incurred over the past year. Changes in the accounting rules, including legislative and other rules to account for employee stock options as a compensation expense among others, could materially increase the expense that we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our operating results. 22 If we fail to manage periodic contractions, we may utilize our cash balances and our existing cash and cash equivalent balances could decline. We anticipate that our existing cash resources will fund any anticipated operating losses, purchases of capital equipment and provide adequate working capital for the next twelve months. However, our liquidity is affected by many factors including, among others, the extent to which we pursue additional capital expenditures, the level of our production, and other factors related to the uncertainties of the industry and global economies. If we fail to manage our contractions successfully we may draw down our cash reserves, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, reduce our value and may impinge our ability to raise debt and equity funding in the future, at a time when we may be required to raise additional cash. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that events in the future will not require us to seek additional capital, or, if so required, that such capital will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. As part of our effort to reduce costs, we may lose key staff, production resources, and technology that we will need to grow when end markets recover. These events could reduce our ability to grow profitably as markets recover. Changes in China’s political, social and economic environment may affect our financial performance. Our financial performance may be affected by changes in China’s political, social and economic environment. The role of the Chinese central and local governments in the Chinese economy is significant. Chinese policies toward economic liberalization, and laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters could change, resulting in greater restrictions on our ability to do business and operate our manufacturing facilities in China. Any imposition of surcharges or any increase in Chinese tax rates could hurt our operating results. The Chinese government could revoke, terminate or suspend our license for national security and similar reasons without compensation to us. If the government of China were to take any of these actions, we would be prevented from conducting all or part of our business. Any failure on our part to comply with governmental regulations could result in the loss of our ability to manufacture our products in China. China has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities. Confrontations have occurred between the military and civilians. Events of this nature could influence the Chinese economy, result in nationalization of foreign-owned operations such as ours, and could negatively affect our ability to operate our facilities in China. We may face additional risks as a result of the revaluation of the Chinese currency. In July 2005, the People’s Republic of China agreed to a shift in Chinese currency policy and established a 2% revaluation of the renminbi, and the renminbi will now be referenced to a basket of currencies, with a daily trading band of +/-0.3%. Depending on market conditions and the state of the Chinese economy, it is possible that China will make more adjustments in the future. Over the next five to ten years, China may move to a managed float system, with opportunistic interventions. This reserve diversification may negatively impact the United States dollar and U.S. interest rates, which could in turn negatively impact the Company’s operating results and financial condition. A significant percentage of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, particularly Asia. Our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, except for sales to our Japanese and some Taiwanese customers, which are denominated in Japanese yen. Thus, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products in non-U.S. markets and make our products more expensive than competitors’ products in these markets. The functional currencies of our Chinese subsidiaries, including our joint ventures, are the local currency; since most of our operations are conducted in China, many of our costs are incurred in Chinese currency, which subjects us to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Chinese renminbi. We incur transaction gains or losses resulting from consolidation of expenses incurred in local currencies for these subsidiaries, as well as in translation of the assets and liabilities of these assets 23 at each balance sheet date. These risks may be increased by the fluctuation and revaluation of the Chinese renminbi. If we do not effectively manage the risks associated with this currency risk, our revenue, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. A reoccurrence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or the outbreak of a different contagious diseasesuch as the Avian Flu may adversely impact our manufacturing operations and some of our key suppliers and customers. The majority of our substrate manufacturing activities are conducted in China. In addition, we source key raw materials, including gallium, from our joint ventures and other suppliers in China. The 2003 SARS outbreak was most notable in China and a small number of cases were reported in 2004. One employee at our LED production facility in China contracted SARS in late April 2003 prompting us to close the facility for ten days. There was no significant impact to our ability to fill customer orders. If there were to be another outbreak of SARS or a different contagious disease, such as Avian Flu, and if our employees contracted the disease, we may be required to temporarily close our manufacturing operations. Similarly, if one of our key suppliers is required to close for an extended period, we may not have enough raw material inventory to continue manufacturing operations. In addition, while we possess management skills among our China staff that enable us to maintain our manufacturing operations with minimal on-site supervision from our US-based staff, our business could also be harmed if travel to or from Asia and the United States is restricted or inadvisable, as it was during parts of 2003. None of our substrate competitors is as dependent on manufacturing facilities in China as we are. If our manufacturing operations were closed for a significant period, we could lose revenue and market share during that period which would depress our financial performance and could be difficult to recapture. Finally, if one of our key customers is required to close for an extended period, we may not be able to ship product to them, our revenue would decline and our financial performance would suffer. The effect of terrorist threats and actions on the general economy could decrease our revenues. The United States continues to be on alert for terrorist activity. The potential near- and long-term impact terrorist activities may have in regards to our suppliers, customers and markets for our products and the U.S. economy are uncertain. There may be embargos of ports or products, or destruction of shipments or our facilities, or attacks that affect our personnel. There may be other potential adverse effects on our operating results due to a significant event that we cannot foresee. Since we perform substantially all of our manufacturing operations in China, and a significant portion of our customers are located outside of the Untied States, terrorist activity or threats against US-owned enterprise are a particular concern to us. If any of our facilities is damaged by actions such as fire, explosion, or natural disaster, we may not be able to manufacture our products. The ongoing operation of our manufacturing and production facilities in China is critical to our ability to meet demand for our products. If we are not able to use all or a significant portion of our facilities for prolonged periods for any reason, we will not be able to manufacture products for our customers. For example, a natural disaster, fire or explosion caused by our use of combustible chemicals and high temperatures during our manufacturing processes would render some or all of our facilities inoperable for an indefinite period of time. Actions outside of our control, such as earthquakes, could also damage our facilities, rendering them inoperable. If we are unable to operate our facilities and manufacture our products, we will lose customers and revenue and our business will be harmed. 24 Unpredictable fluctuations in our operating results could disappoint analysts or our investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We have not over the past year been able to sustain growth, and may not be able to return to historic growth levels in the current economic environment. Our net loss in 2002 was the largest in our history and our losses continued during 2003, 2004, and 2005. We have and may continue to experience significant fluctuations in our revenue and earnings. Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: • our ability to develop, manufacture and deliver high quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner; • decline in general economic conditions or downturns in the industry in which we compete; • fluctuations in demand for our products; • expansion of our manufacturing capacity; • expansion of our operations in China; • limited availability and increased cost of raw materials; • the volume and timing of orders from our customers, and cancellations, push outs and delays of customer orders; • fluctuation of our manufacturing yields; • decreases in the prices of our competitors’ products; • costs incurred in connection with any future acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • increases in our expenses, including expenses for research and development. Due to these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful indicators of our future performance. Our operating results have over the past year at times been below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs again in future periods, the price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate. A substantial percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and we may be unable to adjust spending to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues. As a result, any delay in generating revenue could cause our operating results to be below the expectations of market analysts or investors, which could also cause our stock price to fall. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has fluctuated significantly since we began trading on the NASDAQ National Market. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the high and low closing sales prices of our common stock were $2.47 and $1.08, respectively. A number of factors could cause the price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate substantially, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in expectations about our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • new product introduction by us or our competitors; 25 • large customer orders or order cancellations; and • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We have adopted certain anti-takeover measures that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, while potentially providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and for other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no present intention to issue shares of preferred stock. We have adopted a preferred stock purchase rights plan intended to guard against certain takeover tactics. The adoption of this plan was not in response to any proposal to acquire us, and the board is not aware of any such effort. The existence of this plan could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger, acquisition or change of control of us, or changes in our management, including: • the division of our board of directors into three separate classes, each with three year terms; • the right of our board to elect a director to fill a space created by a board vacancy or the expansion of the board; • the ability of our board to alter our bylaws; • the ability of our board to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock; and • the requirement that only our board or the holders of at least 10% of our outstanding shares may call a special meeting of our stockholders. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination with a corporation unless: • 662¤3% of the shares of voting stock not owned by these large stockholders approve the merger or combination, or • the board of directors approves the merger or combination or the transaction which resulted in the large stockholder owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 