ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a large investment in fulfillment and computer technology equipment as well as long term building leases. A severe or prolonged economic downturn affecting our customers’ unit volume sales could negatively impact our operating results. The overall economy experienced a downturn in the later part of 2008, which continued throughout 2009 and most of 2010. Although the latter half of 2010 showed signs of recovery overall, our client’s volumes during 2010 did not recover to pre 2009 levels and economic forecasts have not resulted in a consensus of when a general strengthening of the economy will occur. Innotrac provides sufficient capacity in its fulfillment operations and electronic data processing systems to support growth in our customers’ business and service those customers during seasonal volume increases. The investment in that capacity can result in an underutilization in our invested assets during a significant or prolonged economic downturn. Furthermore, we lease our buildings with lease terms long enough to secure competitive lease rates, but which expose us to the term of the real property leases limiting our flexibility to reduce fixed capacity for periods of economic downturns. We service varied client business lines and industry verticals which provide some level of protection for such downturns. Our ability to achieve improved operating results will be partially effected by the speed and strength of any recovery from the current economic downturn. A prolonged recovery period or a new significant multi-vertical downturn could adversely affect our future results. 8 We rely on a small number of large clients. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, or if we experience unanticipated costs implementing systems and ramping up our services for new clients, our business could be adversely affected. Innotrac focuses on developing long-term contractual relationships with large corporations. A relatively small number of our clients account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our ten largest clients accounted for 78.7% of our revenue in 2010. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one of these large clients is lost, or revenues from our largest clients decline, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace or supplement that client with others that generate comparable revenues or profits. During 2009, five of our largest clients were materially affected by the economy with two clients lost due t o the decision by one client’s parent company to exit the business entirely and another client moving fulfillment services in-house following its merger with a larger company. Although we believe growth of our existing client base, improvement in the economic climate and continued cost reduction efforts will partially offset the financial impact of this reduced revenue, our future operating results will rely heavily on our ability to sell new business. Such projected new business may not develop and the future loss of any other large account could adversely affect our future results. Noncompliance with any of the covenants under our revolving credit agreement would allow our lender to declare any outstanding amounts to be immediately due and payable. Our revolving line of credit agreement contains financial, change of ownership control and other restrictive covenants. Noncompliance with any of the covenants would allow the lender to declare any outstanding borrowed amounts to be immediately due and payable. From time to time in the past, we have violated various restrictive covenants, and have been obligated to obtain waivers or amendments from the lender. We were in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant and other reporting requirements of the credit agreement as of December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011. If our operating results in the future result in our inability to comply with the existing covenants and we were unable to obtain an amendment, our credit ratings could be negatively affected impairing our ability to fin ance our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Our written contracts generally do not guarantee specific volume levels and can usually be terminated on little notice. Although we have written agreements with most of our clients, our agreements generally do not assure specific volume or revenue levels. In addition, some agreements provide for termination for any reason on short notice. Furthermore, we are contractually bound to our facility leases until their terms expire. If a client terminates its contract suddenly, we may still have obligations under our leases. If we are not able to keep pace with changing technology, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to: ● integrate new clients in a timely and cost efficient manner; ● enhance existing services; ● develop applications to meet our clients’ needs; and ● introduce new services and products to respond to technological developments. 9 If we fail to maintain our technological capabilities or respond effectively to technological changes, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to meet our clients’ needs and maintain competitiveness. Our Reno system, which provides service to several of our clients, is completely customized and therefore not supported by third party providers. We are heavily reliant on a small number of developers. If these developers leave, it could materially adversely affect our business. We provide details about our technology in “Business - Technology” in Item 1. Our common stock lacks liquidity and is held by a small number of investors, one of which is in receivership where its creditors would like to sell our shares as soon as possible. As of December 31, 2010, Innotrac officers and directors owned approximately 47.8% of the outstanding common stock and an institutional shareholder, IPOF Fund, L.P., and its affiliates held approximately 33.6%. These ownership positions have resulted in a lack of liquidity in our common stock. Additionally, if any of Innotrac’s significant shareholders decided to liquidate its or their position, our common stock price would likely decline materially. The United States District Court in Cleveland, Ohio has appointed a receiver to identify and administer the assets of the IPOF Fund, L.P. and its general partner, Mr. David Dadante. Based on information from the receiver, the Company understands that the Fund and Mr. Dadante own 4,321,777 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 33.6% of the total shares outstanding, all of which are held as collateral in margin accounts maintained at several financial institutions. The Federal Court has indefinitely restricted the financial institutions holding Company stock owned by the IPOF Fund and Mr. Dadante in margin accounts from selling any of these shares. The court has permitted open market sales by the receiver as he may in his sole discretion determine to be consistent with his duty to maximize the value of the assets of IPOF Fund, and as warranted by market conditions. The receiver has indicated to the Company that he does not intend to direct any open market sales except in circumstances in which he believes that there would be no material adverse impact on the market price for the Company’s shares. Nevertheless, as long as these shares are held in margin accounts where the lenders desire to liquidate the positions, there will be significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock because the market is concerned that these shares may be sold in a manner that causes the price of our common stock to decline precipitously. This concern is ameliorated to some degree by the prohibition by the Federal Court for an indefinite period on sales of our shares by financial institutions that hold the shares in margin accounts. The Company continues to engage in discussions from time to time with the receiver in an effort to cause the shares to be sold in a manner that causes as little disruption to the market for Company stock as possible. If the Federal Court were to not continue this prohibition before the shares have been sold in such a transaction, then the financial institutions might foreclose on some or all of these shares and sell them into the market, which could have an extremely negative impact on the market price for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), we are not required to provide the information required by this item. 