Item 1A. Risk Factors PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 SAFE HARBOR CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”), including exhibits, contains statements that are not based on historical fact and represent forward-looking statements, as this term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that TDS intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends” and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, events or developments to be significantly different from any future results, events or developments expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include those set forth below under “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. However, the factors described under “Risk Factors” are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements. TDS undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K to understand the material risks relating to TDS’ business. RISK FACTORS Intense competition in the markets in which TDS operates could adversely affect TDS’ revenues or increase its costs to compete. Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense. TDS’ ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. TDS anticipates that competition may cause the prices for products and services to continue to decline, and the costs to compete to increase, in the future. Most of TDS’ competitors are national or global telecommunications companies that are larger than TDS, possess greater resources, possess more extensive coverage areas and more spectrum within their coverage areas, and market other services with their communications services that TDS does not offer. In addition, TDS may face competition from technologies that may be introduced in the future or from new entrants into the industry. There can be no assurance that TDS will be able to compete successfully in this environment. New technologies, services and products that are more commercially effective than the technologies, services and products offered by TDS may be developed. Sources of competition to TDS’ wireless business typically include three to five competing wireless telecommunications service providers in each market, wireline telecommunications service providers, cable television companies, resellers (including mobile virtual network operators), and providers of other alternate telecommunications services. Many of TDS’ wireless competitors and other competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources than TDS. Sources of competition to TDS’ wireline incumbent local exchange carrier business include, but are not limited to, resellers of local exchange services, interexchange carriers, satellite transmission service providers, wireless communications providers, cable television companies, competitive access service providers, competitive local exchange carriers, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers and providers using other emerging technologies. In the future, TDS expects the number of its wireline physical access lines served to continue to be adversely affected by wireless and broadband substitution and by cable company competition. 42 Sources of competition to TDS’ wireline CLEC business include the sources identified in the prior paragraph as well as the ILEC in each market, which enjoys competitive advantages, including its wireline connection to virtually all of the customers and potential customers of TDS’ CLEC, its established brand name and its substantial financial resources. TDS’ CLEC is typically required to discount services to win potential customers. These factors result in lower operating margins for TDS’ CLEC, and make it vulnerable to any discount pricing policies that the ILEC may adopt to exploit its lower-cost structure and greater financial resources. These factors are not in TDS’ control. Changes in such competitive factors could result in product, service, pricing or cost disadvantages and could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. A failure by TDS’ service offerings to meet customer expectations could limit TDS’ ability to attract and retain customers and could have an adverse effect on TDS’ operations. Customer acceptance of the services that TDS offers is and will continue to be affected by technology and range of service- based differences from competition and by the operational performance, quality, reliability, and coverage of TDS’ networks. TDS may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if it is unable to meet customer expectations for a range of services, or if it is otherwise unable to resolve quality issues relating to, its networks, billing systems, or customer care or if any of those issues limit TDS’ ability to expand its network capacity or customer base, or otherwise place TDS at a competitive disadvantage to other service providers in its markets. The level of customer demand for any TDS next-generation service or product is uncertain. Customer demand could be impacted by differences in the types of services offered, service content, technology, footprint and service areas, network quality, customer perceptions, customer care levels and rate plans. TDS’ system infrastructure may not be capable of supporting changes in technologies and services expected by customers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant changes in technologies and services expected by customers. Future technological changes or advancements may enable other technologies to equal or exceed our current levels of service and render our system infrastructure obsolete. New technologies or services often render existing technology products, services or infrastructure obsolete, too costly or otherwise unmarketable. TDS’ system infrastructure may not be capable of supporting changes in technologies and services expected by customers. If TDS is unable to meet future advances in or changes in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, it may not be able to compete effectively with other carriers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. This could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. An inability to obtain or maintain roaming arrangements with other carriers on terms that are acceptable to TDS could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ customers can access another carrier’s digital system automatically only if the other carrier allows TDS’ customers to roam on its network. TDS relies on roaming agreements with other carriers to provide roaming capability to its customers in areas of the U.S. outside its service areas and to improve coverage within selected areas of TDS’ network footprint. Such agreements cover traditional voice services as well as data services, which are an area of strong growth for TDS and other carriers. Although TDS currently has long-term roaming agreements with certain other carriers, these agreements generally are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. Some competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than TDS because they have larger call volumes or because of their affiliations with, or ownership of, wireless carriers, or may be able to reduce roaming charges by providing service principally over their own networks. In addition, the quality of service that a wireless carrier delivers during a roaming call may be inferior to the quality of service TDS provides, the price of a roaming call may not be competitive with prices of other wireless carriers for such call, and TDS’ customers may not be able to use some of the advanced features, such as voicemail notification, or data applications that the customers enjoy when making calls within TDS’ network. TDS’ rate of adoption of new technologies, such as those enabling high-speed data services, could affect its ability to enter into or maintain roaming agreements with other carriers. In addition, TDS’ wireless “CDMA” and “CDMA 1XRTT” technology is not compatible with certain other technologies used by certain other carriers, such as GSM-based technologies, limiting the ability of TDS to enter into roaming agreements with such other carriers. TDS’ roaming partners could switch their business to new operators or, over time, to their own networks. Changes in roaming usage patterns, rates per roaming minute of use and relationships with carriers whose customers generate roaming minutes of use on TDS’ network could have an adverse effect on TDS’ revenues and revenue growth. 43 If TDS is unable to obtain or maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that contain pricing and other terms that are competitive and acceptable to TDS, and that satisfy TDS’ quality and interoperability requirements, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in access to content for data or video services or access to new handsets being developed by vendors, or an inability to manage its supply chain or inventory successfully, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ businesses increasingly depend on access to content for data or video services and access to new handsets being developed by vendors. TDS’ ability to obtain such access depends in part on other parties. If TDS is unable to obtain access to content for data, music or video services or prompt access to new handsets being developed by vendors on a timely basis, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Operation of TDS’ supply chain and management of its inventory balances requires accurate forecasting of customer growth and demand, which has become increasingly challenging. If overall demand for handsets or the mix of demand for handsets is significantly different than TDS’ expectations, TDS could face inadequate or excess supplies of particular models of handsets. This could result in lost sales opportunities or a buildup of inventory that could not be sold easily. Either of these situations could adversely affect TDS’ revenues, costs of doing business, results of operations or financial condition. A failure by TDS to acquire adequate radio spectrum could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business and operations. TDS’ wireless business depends on the ability to use portions of the radio spectrum licensed by the FCC. TDS could fail to obtain sufficient spectrum capacity in new and existing markets, whether through FCC auctions or other transactions, in order to meet the potential expanded demands for existing services in critical markets, and to enable deployment of next-generation services. Such a failure could have a material adverse impact on the quality of TDS’ services or TDS’ ability to roll out such future services in some markets, or could require that TDS curtail existing services in order to make spectrum available for next-generation services. TDS may acquire more spectrum through a combination of alternatives, including participation in spectrum auctions. As required by law, the FCC has conducted auctions for licenses to use some parts of the radio spectrum. The decision to conduct auctions, and the determination of what spectrum frequencies will be made available for auction, are provided for by laws administered by the FCC. The FCC may not allocate spectrum sufficient to meet the demands of all those wishing to obtain licenses. TDS may not be successful in FCC auctions in obtaining the spectrum that TDS believes is necessary to implement its business and technology strategies. In addition, newly auctioned spectrum may not be compatible with existing spectrum, and vendors may not create suitable products to use such spectrum. TDS also may seek to acquire radio spectrum through purchases and exchanges with other spectrum licensees or otherwise, including by purchases of other licensees outright. However, TDS may not be able to acquire sufficient spectrum through these types of transactions, and TDS may not be able to complete any of these transactions on favorable terms. TDS is currently participating and, to the extent conducted by the FCC, likely to participate in FCC auctions of additional spectrum in the future and, during certain periods, will be subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rules, which could have an adverse effect on TDS. From time to time, the FCC conducts auctions through which additional spectrum is made available for the provision of wireless services. TDS has participated in such auctions in the past, is currently participating in an auction and is likely to participate in other auctions conducted by the FCC in the future. FCC anti-collusion rules place certain restrictions on business communications and disclosures by participants in an FCC auction. The FCC auction of spectrum in the 700 megahertz band, referred to as Auction 73, began on January 24, 2008. If certain reserve prices are not met, the FCC will follow Auction 73 with a contingent auction, referred to as Auction 76. For purposes of applying its anti-collusion rules the FCC has determined that both auctions will be treated as a single auction, which means that, in the event that the contingent auction is needed, the anti-collusion rules would last from the application deadline for Auction 73, which was December 3, 2007, until the down payment deadline for Auction 76. Applicable FCC rules place certain restrictions on business communications with other companies and on public disclosures relating to TDS’ participation in the auction. These anti-collusion rules may restrict the normal conduct of TDS’ business and/or disclosures by TDS relating to the auctions, which could last 3 to 6 months or more. The restrictions could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 44 An inability to attract and/or retain management, technical, sales and other personnel could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to competition for qualified management, technical, sales and other personnel, there can be no assurance that TDS will be able to continue to attract and/or retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of its business. The loss of the services of existing personnel as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified personnel in a timely manner would be detrimental to TDS’ growth and activities requiring expertise. The failure to attract and/or retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ assets are concentrated in the U.S. telecommunications industry. As a result, its results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this industry. TDS’ assets are concentrated in the U.S. telecommunications industry and, in particular in the Midwestern portion of the United States. TDS’ focus on the U.S. telecommunications industry, with concentrations of assets and operations in the Midwest, together with its positioning relative to larger competitors with greater resources within the industry, may represent increased risk for investors due to the lack of diversification. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could adversely affect TDS’ revenues and increase its costs of doing business. There has been a recent trend in the telecommunications and related industries towards consolidation of service providers through joint ventures, reorganizations and acquisitions. TDS expects this trend towards consolidation to continue, leading to larger competitors over time. TDS may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources or that offer more services than TDS, which could adversely affect TDS’ revenues and costs of doing business. Changes in general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the markets in which TDS operates could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ operating results may be subject to factors which are outside of TDS’ control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the markets in which TDS operates. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in various business factors could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in any of several factors could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to: · demand for or usage of services, · the pricing of services, · the overall size and growth rate of TDS’ customer base, · average revenue per unit, · penetration rates, · churn rates, · selling expenses, · net customer acquisition and retention costs, · roaming rates, · minutes of use, · the mix of products and services offered by TDS and purchased by customers, and · the costs of providing products and services. 45 Advances or changes in telecommunications technology, such as Voice over Internet Protocol, WiMAX, or Long-Term Evolution (LTE) could render certain technologies used by TDS obsolete, could reduce TDS’ revenues or could increase its costs of doing business. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new services and products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Technological advances and industry changes, such as the implementation by other carriers of third generation (“3G”) technology, wideband technologies such as “Wi-Fi” and “WiMAX” which do not necessarily rely on FCC-licensed spectrum or the development of fourth generation technology (“4G”) such as LTE, could cause the technology used on TDS’ wireless networks to become less competitive or obsolete. In addition, Voice over Internet Protocol, also known as VoIP, is an emerging technological trend that could cause a decrease in demand for TDS’ telephone services. TDS may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could reduce its revenues or increase its costs of doing business. If TDS cannot keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the telecommunications industry over time, its financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business could be adversely affected. Changes in TDS’ enterprise value, changes in the supply or demand of the market for wireless licenses or telephone company franchises, adverse developments in the business or the industry in which TDS is involved and/or other factors could require TDS to recognize impairments in the carrying value of TDS’ license costs, goodwill, customer lists and/or physical assets. A large portion of TDS’ assets consists of intangible assets in the form of licenses and goodwill. TDS also has substantial investments in long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment. Licenses, goodwill and other long-lived assets must be reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. TDS reviews its licenses, goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss may need to be recognized to the extent the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of such assets. The amount of any such impairment charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. The estimation of fair values requires assumptions by management about factors that are highly uncertain including future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate, and other factors. Different assumptions for these factors or valuation methodologies could create materially different results. Costs, integration problems or other factors associated with acquisitions/divestitures of properties or licenses and/or expansion of TDS’ business could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of TDS’ operating strategy, TDS may expand the markets in which it operates through the acquisition of other telecommunications service providers, the acquisition of selected licenses or operating markets from such providers or through direct investment. The acquisition of additional businesses will depend on TDS’ ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and to finance any such acquisitions. TDS also will be subject to competition for suitable acquisition candidates. Any acquisitions, if made, could divert the resources and management time of TDS and would require integration with TDS’ existing business operations and services. As a result, there can be no assurance that any such acquisitions will occur or that any such acquisitions, if made, would be made in a timely manner or on terms favorable to TDS or would be successfully integrated into TDS’ operations. These transactions commonly involve a number of risks, including: · entering markets in which TDS has limited or no direct prior experience and competitors have stronger positions; · uncertain revenues and expenses, with the result that TDS may not realize the growth in revenues, anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return on investment that it expects; · difficulty of integrating the technologies, services, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; · diversion of management’s attention; · disruption of ongoing business; · impact on TDS’ cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs; · inability to retain key personnel; 46 · inability to successfully incorporate acquired assets and rights into TDS’ service offerings; · inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and · impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors. Failure to overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in these transactions could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. If TDS expands into new telecommunications businesses or markets, it may incur significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which must be made before any revenues will be realized. Such expenditures may increase as a result of the accelerated pace of regulatory and technological changes. Such expenditures, together with the associated high initial costs of providing service in new markets, may result in reduced cash flow until an adequate revenue base is established. There can be no assurance that an adequate revenue base will be established in any new technology or market which TDS pursues. If TDS expands into new telecommunications businesses or markets, it will incur certain additional risks in connection with such expansion, including increased legal and regulatory risks, and possible adverse reaction by some of its current customers. Such telecommunications businesses and markets are highly competitive and, as a new entrant, TDS may be disadvantaged. The success of TDS’ entry into new telecommunications businesses or markets will be dependent upon, among other things, TDS’ ability to select new equipment and software and to integrate the new equipment and software into its operations, to hire and train qualified personnel and to enhance its existing administrative, financial and information systems to accommodate the new businesses or markets. No assurance can be given that TDS will be successful with respect to these efforts. If TDS is not successful with respect to its expansion initiatives, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. A significant portion of TDS’ wireless revenues is derived from customers who buy services through independent agents and dealers who market TDS’ services on a commission basis. If TDS’ relationships with these agents and dealers are seriously harmed, its revenues could be adversely affected. TDS has relationships with agents, dealers and other third-party retailers to obtain customers. Agents and dealers are independent business people who obtain customers for TDS on a commission basis. TDS’ agents are generally in the business of selling wireless telephones, wireless service packages and other related products. TDS’ dealers include major appliance dealers, car stereo companies and mass merchants including regional and national companies. Additionally, in support of its overall internet initiatives, TDS has recruited agents which provide services exclusively through the internet. TDS’ business and growth depends, in part, on the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with its agents, dealers and other third-party retailers. If such relationships are seriously harmed, TDS’ revenues and, as a result, its financial condition or results of operations, could be adversely affected. TDS’ investments in technologies which are unproven or for which success has not yet been demonstrated may not produce the benefits that TDS expects. TDS is making investments in various new technologies and service and product offerings. These investments include technologies for enhanced data services offerings. TDS expects new services, products and solutions based on these new technologies to contribute to future growth in its revenues. However, the markets for some of these services, products and solutions are still emerging and the overall potential for these markets remains uncertain. If customer demand for these new services, products and solutions does not develop as expected, TDS’ financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 47 A failure by TDS to complete significant network construction and system implementation as part of its plans to improve the quality, coverage, capabilities and capacity of its network could have an adverse effect on its operations. TDS’ business plan includes significant construction activities and enhancements to its network. As TDS deploys, expands, and enhances its network, it may need to acquire additional spectrum. Also, as TDS continues to build out and enhance its network, TDS must, among other things, continue to: · lease, acquire or otherwise obtain rights to cell and switch sites; · obtain zoning variances or other local governmental or third-party approvals or permits for network construction; · complete and update the radio frequency design, including cell site design, frequency planning and network optimization, for each of TDS’ markets; and · improve, expand and maintain customer care, network management, billing and other financial and management systems. Any difficulties encountered in completing these activities, as well as problems in vendor equipment availability, technical resources, system performance or system adequacy, could delay expansion of operations and product capabilities in new or existing markets or result in increased costs in all markets. Failure to successfully build out and enhance TDS’ network and necessary support facilities and systems in a cost effective manner, and in a manner that satisfies customer expectations for quality and coverage, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Financial difficulties of TDS’ key suppliers or vendors, or termination or impairment of TDS’ relationship with such suppliers or vendors, could result in a delay or termination of TDS’ receipt of equipment, services or content which could adversely affect TDS’ business and results of operations. TDS depends upon certain vendors to provide it with equipment, services or content that TDS needs to continue TDS’ network construction and upgrade and to operate its business. TDS does not have operational or financial control over any of such key suppliers and has limited influence with respect to the manner in which these key suppliers conduct their businesses. If these key suppliers experience financial difficulties and are unable to provide equipment, services or content to TDS on a timely basis or cease to provide such equipment, services or content or if such key suppliers otherwise fail to honor their obligations to TDS, TDS may be unable to maintain and upgrade its network or provide services to its customers in a competitive manner, or could suffer other disruptions to its business. In that event, TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. TDS has significant investments in entities that it does not control. Losses in the value of such investments could have an adverse effect on TDS’ results of operations or financial condition. TDS has significant investments in entities that it does not control, including investments in Deutsche Telekom AG and a 5.5% ownership interest in the Los Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership (the “LA Partnership”). TDS cannot provide assurance that these entities will operate in a manner that will increase the value of TDS’ investments, that TDS’ proportionate share of income from the LA Partnership will continue at the current level in the future or that TDS will not incur losses from the holding of such investments. Losses in the values of such investments or a reduction in income from the LA Partnership could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. War, conflicts, hostilities and/or terrorist attacks or equipment failure, power outages, natural disasters or breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Wars, conflicts, hostilities, terrorist attacks, major equipment failures, power outages, natural disasters, breaches of network or information technology security or similar disasters or failures that affect TDS’ wireless or wireline telephone switching offices, information systems, microwave links, third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which TDS relies, TDS’ cell sites or other equipment or the networks of other providers which TDS customers use or on which they roam could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ operations. Although TDS has certain back-up and similar arrangements, TDS has not established a formal, comprehensive business continuity or emergency response plan at this time. As a result, under certain circumstances, TDS may not be prepared to continue its operations, respond to emergencies or recover from disasters or other similar events. TDS’ inability to operate its telecommunications system or 48 access or operate its information systems even for a limited time period, or the loss or disclosure of customer data, may result in a loss of customers or impair TDS’ ability to serve customers or attract new customers, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. The market price of TDS’ Common Shares and Special Common Shares is subject to fluctuations due to a variety of factors. Prices of TDS stocks are subject to fluctuations from time to time due to a variety of factors such as: · general economic conditions; · wireless and telecommunications industry conditions; · fluctuations in TDS’ quarterly customer activations, churn rate, revenues, results of operations or cash flows; · variations between TDS’ actual financial and operating results and those expected by analysts and investors; and · announcements by TDS’ competitors. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect the future market prices of TDS stocks, or cause the future market prices of the stocks to fluctuate from time to time. Changes in accounting requirements or guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. TDS prepares its consolidated financial statement in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and files such financial statements with the SEC in accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires TDS to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. TDS bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in accounting requirements or in guidance or interpretations related to such requirements, changes in industry practice, identification of errors or changes in estimates or assumptions could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. Restatements of financial statements by TDS and related matters, including resulting delays in filing periodic reports with the SEC, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ credit rating, liquidity, financing arrangements, capital resources and ability to access the capital markets, including shelf registration statements; could adversely affect TDS’ listing arrangements on the American Stock Exchange and/or New York Stock Exchange; and/or could have other negative consequences, any of which could have an adverse effect on the trading prices of TDS’ publicly traded equity and/or debt and/or TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS and its audit committee concluded that TDS would restate its financial statements in November 2005, November 2006 and April 2007, which resulted in delays in the filing of periodic reports with the SEC. This resulted in downgrades of TDS’ credit ratings, defaults under TDS’ revolving credit agreement and certain forward contracts, non-compliance under TDS’ debt indenture, non-compliance under the requirements of the American Stock Exchange with respect to the listing of the TDS Common Shares and the TDS Special Common Shares and non-compliance with the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange with respect to the listing of certain series of TDS debt thereon. These or possible future restatements and delays, or any subsequent delays in filing reports with the SEC, could have adverse consequences, including the following: TDS’ credit ratings could be further downgraded, which would result in an increase in its borrowing costs and could make it more difficult for TDS to borrow funds on satisfactory terms. The lenders on TDS’ revolving credit agreement and/or the counterparty on the forward contracts could refuse to waive or extend a waiver of defaults, impose restrictive covenants or conditions or require increased payments and fees. The holders of debt under TDS’ indenture could attempt to assert a default and, if this is successful and TDS does not cure the default in a timely manner, accelerate such debt. The American Stock Exchange could begin delisting proceedings with respect to the TDS Common Shares and TDS Special Common Shares. The New York Stock Exchange could begin delisting proceedings with respect to TDS debt that is listed thereon. TDS may not be able to file shelf registration statements on Form S-3 for an extended period of time, which may limit TDS’ ability to access the capital markets. TDS may not be able to use Form S-8 registration statements relating to its employee benefit plans, which may have an adverse affect on TDS’ ability to 49 attract and retain employees. TDS also could face shareholder litigation or SEC enforcement action. The pending SEC investigation regarding the restatement of TDS’ financial statements could result in substantial expenses, and could result in monetary or other penalties. The staff of the SEC is conducting an informal inquiry regarding TDS’ accounting practices in response to the restatements that were announced in November 2005 and November 2006. TDS is cooperating fully with the SEC staff. However, depending upon the scope and duration of the SEC’s review, substantial expenses and diversion of management’s attention and resources for the foreseeable future could be required. Also, if TDS is unsuccessful in defending against this or other investigations or proceedings, TDS could incur monetary or other penalties that could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities or otherwise, could require TDS to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. The preparation of financial statements requires TDS to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. TDS bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities or otherwise, could require TDS to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. A failure to successfully remediate the existing material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner or the identification of additional material weaknesses in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or fail to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, TDS is required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as part of its Form 10-K filed with the SEC. TDS management is also required to report on the effectiveness of TDS’ disclosure controls and procedures. The independent auditors of TDS are required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. As disclosed in this Form 10-K, TDS management has identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and, accordingly, has determined that internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2007. Reference is made to Item 9A of this Form 10-K for a description of such material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Such material weakness could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or failure to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if TDS does not successfully remediate any known material weaknesses in a timely manner, it could be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities such as the SEC, it could fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations, or investor perceptions could be negatively affected; each of these potential consequences could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 50 Early redemptions of debt or repurchases of debt, issuances of debt, changes in prepaid forward contracts, changes in operating leases, changes in purchase obligations or other factors or developments could cause the amounts reported under Contractual Obligations in TDS’ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to be different from the amounts actually incurred. TDS has reported amounts with respect to future contractual obligations under the caption “Contractual Obligations” in its Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Form 10-K. The actual amounts disbursed in the future may differ materially from these currently reported amounts due to various factors, including early redemptions of debt or repurchases of debt, issuances of debt, changes in prepaid forward contracts, changes in operating leases, changes in purchase obligations or other factors or developments. An increase of TDS’ debt in the future could subject TDS to various restrictions and higher interest costs and decrease its cash flows and earnings. TDS may increase its debt in the future for acquisitions or other purposes. For example, TDS may require substantial additional financing to fund capital expenditures, license purchases, operating costs and expenses, domestic or international investments, or other growth initiatives. TDS currently relies on its committed revolving credit facilities to meet any additional short-term financing needs. Other sources of financing may include public or private debt. The agreements governing any indebtedness may contain financial and other covenants that could impair TDS’ flexibility and restrict TDS’ ability to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, increased debt levels could result in higher interest costs and lower net cash flows and earnings. Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, other changes in market conditions, changes in TDS’ credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to TDS, which could require TDS to reduce its construction, development and acquisition programs. TDS and its subsidiaries operate capital-intensive businesses. TDS has used internally-generated funds and has also obtained substantial funds from external sources to finance the build-out and enhancement of markets, to fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. TDS also may require substantial additional capital for, among other uses, acquisitions of providers of wireless or wireline telecommunications services, spectrum license or system acquisitions, system development and network capacity expansion. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will continue to be available to TDS or its subsidiaries on terms or at prices acceptable to TDS. Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, other changes in market conditions, changes in TDS’ credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to TDS, which could require TDS to reduce its construction, development and acquisition programs. In the long term, reduction of TDS’ construction, development and acquisition programs likely would have a negative impact on TDS’ consolidated revenues, income and cash flows. 51 Changes in the regulatory environment or a failure by TDS to timely or fully comply with any regulatory requirements could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. TDS’ operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or increased regulation by these regulatory bodies could negatively impact TDS’ operations by, among other things, increasing TDS’ costs of doing business, permitting greater competition or limiting TDS’ ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. For instance, on April 2, 2007, the FCC issued an order establishing new rules for the safeguarding of “customer proprietary network information.” TDS will incur additional operating costs as it conforms its procedures to these rules. TDS’ wireless business requires licenses granted by the FCC to provide wireless telecommunications services. Typically, such licenses are issued for initial 10-year terms and may be renewed for additional 10-year terms subject to FCC approval of the renewal applications. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given service area could result in the revocation of TDS’ license for that area or in the imposition of fines. Court decisions and rulemakings could have a substantial impact on TDS’ wireless operations, including rulemakings on intercarrier access compensation and universal service. Litigation and different objectives among federal and state regulators could create uncertainty and delay TDS’ ability to respond to new regulations. TDS is unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern TDS, but such actions could have material adverse effects on TDS’ wireless business. For instance, currently before the FCC for comment are proposals made by the Federal-State Joint Board and by the FCC itself to change the universal service high cost fund in various ways. These proposals include: the creation of separate wireless, wireline, and broadband funds, with an overall “cap” on all funds, including the wireline and wireless funds; a separate cap on payments to wireless carriers; elimination of the “identical support” rules, thereby requiring wireless carriers to receive support based on their own costs rather than wireline “per line” costs; using “reverse auctions” (a form of competitive bidding) to determine the amount of support to be provided to eligible telecommunications carriers, and limiting the number of carriers eligible to receive support to a given area. The FCC will consider these proposals and others in 2008. It is not certain which of them, if any, will be adopted. Adoption by the FCC of any form of “cap”, of limits on the number of carriers eligible to receive support for a given area or of its proposals related to identical support or reverse auctions would likely reduce the amount of support that wireless carriers would be otherwise eligible to receive. In addition, new or amended regulatory requirements could increase U.S. Cellular’s costs and divert resources from other initiatives. TDS’ wireline operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or increased regulation by these regulatory bodies could negatively impact TDS’ operations by, among other things, increasing TDS’ costs of doing business, permitting greater competition or limiting TDS’ ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. TDS is unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern TDS, but such actions could have material adverse effects on TDS’ wireline business. TDS’ ILECs have been granted permission to operate by each of the states in which TDS operates. TDS is subject to regulation from the regulatory commissions in each of these states as well as from the FCC. State regulatory commissions have primary jurisdiction over local and intrastate rates that TDS charges customers, including, without limitation, other telecommunications companies, and service quality standards. The FCC has primary jurisdiction over the interstate access rates that TDS charges other telecommunications companies that use TDS’ network and other issues related to interstate service. TDS receives a substantial amount of its ILEC revenues from other interexchange carriers for providing access to its network and from compensation from the Universal Service Fund and other support funds. The FCC is re-examining all currently regulated forms of access charges and the prospect for continued access charges is uncertain. Furthermore, the FCC is reviewing the Universal Service Fund and applicable rules to assess the sustainability of the fund and is examining the process for determining the appropriate contributors, contribution rate, collection method, supported services, and the eligibility and portability of payments. Changes in access charges and the Universal Service Fund that reduce the size of the fund and/or payments to TDS could have a material adverse impact on these sources of revenues. Future revenues, costs, and capital investment in TDS’ wireline business could be adversely affected by material changes to these regulations including but not limited to changes in intercarrier compensation, state and federal universal service support, loop (“UNE-L”) pricing and requirements, and VoIP regulation. 52 Although TDS’ CLECs do not have regulatory review in the same way as the ILECs, the viability of their business model depends on FCC and state regulations. Court decisions and regulatory developments relating to UNE-L and access and transport options could negatively affect the CLEC’s ability to obtain access to certain local networks or provide broadband services to end users and/or increase the cost of providing some services. As a result of certain recent court decisions and regulatory developments, TDS has phased-out most of its CLEC operations that relied on an UNE-P provided by incumbent carriers. Moreover, the further loss of some access and transport options as a result of future developments would be unfavorable for TDS’ CLEC operations and could negatively affect their ability to provide broadband services to end users. TDS attempts to timely and fully comply with all regulatory requirements. However, in certain circumstances, TDS may not be able to timely or fully comply with all regulatory requirements due to various factors, including changes to regulatory requirements, limitations in or availability of technology, insufficient time provided for compliance, problems encountered in attempting to comply or other factors. Any failure by TDS to timely or fully comply with any regulatory requirements could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. Changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal or state tax assessments could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. TDS does not have control over changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments. Income taxes and other federal or state taxes represent significant expenses for TDS. Accordingly, changes in income tax rates, laws, regulations or rulings, or federal and state tax assessments could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. Settlements, judgments, restraints on its current or future manner of doing business and/or legal costs resulting from pending and future litigation could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. TDS is regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before the FCC and various state and federal courts. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. The assessment of legal proceedings is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events. The amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on TDS’ current or future manner of doing business. Such potential outcomes could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. The possible development of adverse precedent in litigation or conclusions in professional studies to the effect that radio frequency emissions from handsets, wireless data devices and/or cell sites cause harmful health consequences, including cancer or tumors, or may interfere with various electronic medical devices such as pacemakers, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ wireless business, financial condition or results of operations. Media reports have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health problems, including cancer or tumors, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage use of wireless handsets or expose TDS to potential litigation. Any resulting decreases in demand for wireless services, or costs of litigation and damage awards, could impair TDS’ ability to sustain profitability. In addition, some studies have indicated that some aspects of using wireless phones while driving may impair drivers’ attention in certain circumstances, making accidents more likely. These concerns could lead to potential litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries, any of which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Numerous state and local legislative bodies have proposed legislation restricting or prohibiting the use of wireless phones while driving motor vehicles. These laws or, other laws if passed, prohibiting or restricting the use of wireless phones while driving, could have the effect of reducing customer usage, which could cause an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition, or results of operations. 53 Certain matters, such as control by the TDS Voting Trust and provisions in the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of TDS. The TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and the TDS bylaws contain provisions which may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of TDS without the support of the TDS Voting Trust and the TDS board of directors or without meeting various other conditions. The TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes the issuance of different series of common stock, which have different voting rights. The TDS Series A Common Shares have the power to elect approximately 75% (less one) of the directors and have ten votes per share in matters other than the election of directors. The TDS Common Shares (with one vote per share) and TDS Special Common Shares (with one vote per share) vote as a separate group only with respect to the election of 25% (plus one) of the directors. In matters other than the election of such directors, the TDS Common Shares have one vote per share and the TDS Special Common Shares have no votes except as required by law. As a result, the TDS Special Common Shares would generally not have any vote in connection with any change of control transaction involving TDS. A substantial majority of the outstanding TDS Series A Common Shares are held in the TDS Voting Trust which expires on June 30, 2035. The TDS Voting Trust was created to facilitate the long-standing relationships among the trustees’ certificate holders. By virtue of the number of shares held by them, the voting trustees have the power to elect eight directors based on the current TDS Board of Directors size of twelve directors, and control a majority of the voting power of TDS with respect to matters other than the election of directors. The existence of the TDS Voting Trust is likely to deter any potential unsolicited or hostile takeover attempts or other efforts to obtain control of TDS and may make it more difficult for shareholders to sell shares of TDS at higher than market prices. The trustees of the TDS Voting Trust have advised TDS that they intend to maintain the ability to keep or dispose of voting control of TDS. The TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, also authorizes the TDS board of directors to designate and issue TDS Undesignated Shares in one or more classes or series of preferred or common stock from time to time. Generally, no further action or authorization by the shareholders is necessary prior to the designation or issuance of the additional TDS Undesignated Shares authorized pursuant to the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, unless applicable laws or regulations would require such approval in a given instance. Such TDS Undesignated Shares could be issued in circumstances that would serve to preserve control of TDS’ then existing management. In addition, the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, includes a provision which authorizes the TDS board of directors to consider various factors, including effects on customers, taxes, and the long-term and short-term interests of TDS, in the context of a proposal or offer to acquire or merge the corporation, or to sell its assets, and to reject such offer if the TDS Board of Directors determines that the proposal is not in the best interests of the corporation based on such factors. The provisions of the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and the TDS bylaws and the existence of various classes of capital stock could prevent shareholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control of TDS by delaying or preventing such change in control. 54 Any of the foregoing events or other events could cause revenues, customer additions, operating income, capital expenditures and/or any other financial or statistical information to vary from TDS’ forward-looking estimates by a material amount. TDS may from time-to-time provide forward-looking information, including estimates of future operating income; depreciation, amortization and accretion expenses; service revenues; net retail customer activations; and/or capital expenditures. Any such forward-looking information includes consideration of known or anticipated changes to the extent disclosed, but unknown or unanticipated events, including the risks discussed above, could cause such estimates to differ materially from the actual amounts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 