Item 1A. Risk Factors PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 SAFE HARBOR CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including exhibits, contains statements that are not based on historical facts and represent forward-looking statements, as this term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, that address activities, events or developments that TDS intends, expects, projects, believes, estimates, plans or anticipates will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “projects” and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, events or developments to be significantly different from any future results, events or developments expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include those set forth below under “Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K. However, such factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on future results, performance or achievements. TDS undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Form 10-K to understand the material risks relating to TDS’ business. RISK FACTORS 1) Intense competition in the markets in which TDS operates could adversely affect TDS’ revenues or increase its costs to compete. Competition in the telecommunications industry is currently intense and could intensify further in the future due to the general effects of a weak economy, as well as due to wireless industry factors such as increasing market penetration and decreasing customer churn rates. TDS’ ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the telecommunications industry. TDS anticipates that competition may cause the prices for products and services to continue to decline, and the costs to compete to increase, in the future. Most of TDS’ competitors are national or global telecommunications companies that are larger than TDS, possess greater resources, possess more extensive coverage areas and more spectrum within their coverage areas, and market other services with their communications services that TDS does not offer. Larger competitors could potentially engage in predatory practices that could have an adverse effect on TDS. In addition, TDS may face competition from technologies that may be introduced in the future or from new entrants into the industry. New technologies, services and products that are more commercially effective than the technologies, services and products offered by TDS may be developed. Further, new technologies may be proprietary such that TDS is not able to adopt such technologies. There can be no assurance that TDS will be able to compete successfully in this environment. Sources of competition to TDS’ wireless business typically include three to five competing wireless telecommunications service providers in each market, wireline telecommunications service providers, cable television companies, resellers (including mobile virtual network operators), and providers of other alternate telecommunications services. Many of TDS’ wireless competitors and other competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources than TDS. TDS’ competitors offer a wide array of wireless service offerings and wireless devices. There is increasing complexity associated with these wireless product and service offerings and the related pricing. Further, new wireless services and products and pricing structures are frequently introduced. Multiple events related to new service offerings, products and pricing offered by TDS’ competitors occurring simultaneously or in close proximity, may impact TDS’ ability to respond to such events and compete effectively. Sources of competition to TDS’ wireline ILEC business include, but are not limited to, resellers of local exchange services, interexchange carriers, regional bell operating companies (RBOC), satellite transmission service providers, wireless communications providers, cable television companies, competitive access service providers, competitive local exchange carriers, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) providers and providers using other emerging technologies. In the future, TDS expects the number of its wireline physical access lines served to continue to be adversely affected by wireless and broadband substitution and by cable company competition. Sources of competition to TDS’ wireline CLEC business include the sources identified in the prior paragraph as well as the ILEC in each market, which enjoys competitive advantages, including its wireline connection to virtually all of the customers and potential customers of TDS’ CLEC, its established brand name and its substantial financial resources. TDS’ CLEC is typically required to discount services to win potential customers. These factors result in lower operating margins for TDS’ CLEC, and make it vulnerable to any discount pricing policies that the ILEC may adopt to exploit its lower-cost structure and greater financial resources. 22 Some of the specific risks presented by certain wireline competitors include: · Cable television companies — continued deployment of technologies such as DOCSIS 3.0 that substantially increase data transfer speeds · Wireless — the trend of customers “substituting” their wireline connection for a wireless device · RBOC — continue to be formidable competitors given their full suite of services, experience and strong financial resources · VoIP providers — are able to offer voice service at a very low price point and are also able in many cases to avoid paying access charges for their VoIP traffic If TDS does not adapt to effectively compete in such a highly competitive environment, such competitive factors could result in product, service, pricing or cost disadvantages and could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 2) A failure by TDS to successfully execute its business strategy or allocate resources or capital could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. Cellular is a regional wireless carrier that operates on a customer satisfaction strategy, seeking to meet customer needs by providing a comprehensive range of wireless products and services, excellent customer support, and a high-quality network. U.S. Cellular seeks to operate controlling interests in wireless licenses in areas adjacent to or in proximity to its other wireless licenses, thereby building contiguous operating market areas. U.S. Cellular relies on roaming agreements with other carriers to provide roaming capability to its customers in areas of the U.S. outside its service areas and to improve coverage within selected areas of U.S. Cellular’s network footprint. U.S. Cellular pursues a product and technology strategy which requires it to follow and recognize product and technology advances and quickly adopt and execute rollouts of such advances. This “smart follower” strategy requires U.S. Cellular to make timely and effective strategic decisions related to technological advances and related products and services, and which of these technological advances to adopt and roll out to its customers. In addition, in pursuit of its business strategy U.S. Cellular is engaged in a number of multi-year initiatives including the development of: a new billing and operational support system (B/OSS) which will include a new point-of-sale system and consolidate billing on one platform; an Electronic Data Warehouse/Customer Relationship Management System to collect and analyze information more efficiently to build and improve customer relationships; and a new Internet/Web platform to enable customers to complete a wide range of transactions and, eventually, to manage their accounts online. These multi-year initiatives involve a substantial financial commitment, including the entry into a multi-year commitment with a vendor during 2010 for licensing and services related to the development and implementation of the new B/OSS. Further, U.S. Cellular’s strategic decisions related to the adoption of new technologies are ultimately impacted by such factors as consumer preferences for technologies and the related services and products, and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) support of such technologies, among other factors. Also, U.S. Cellular’s “smart follower” strategy may cause consumers that are eager to adopt new technologies more quickly to select U.S. Cellular’s competitors as their service provider. These customers who are early adopters of new technologies are often customers who generate higher average revenue per unit (“ARPU”), and to the extent that U.S. Cellular does not attract these types of customers, U.S. Cellular could be at a competitive disadvantage and have a customer base that generates lower overall ARPU relative to its competition. TDS Telecom’s strategy is to be the preferred provider of telecommunications services—including voice, broadband, and video services—in its chosen markets. TDS Telecom has initiated an aggressive program of service bundling and deep discounting and made the decision to voluntarily exit certain revenue pools administered by the FCC-supervised National Exchange Carrier Association in order to achieve additional pricing flexibility to meet competitive pressures and increase customer loyalty. TDS Telecom is continuing to focus on cost-reduction initiatives through product cost improvement and process efficiencies and also plans to continue to focus on customer retention programs, including “triple-play” bundles involving voice, DSL and satellite TV. Service bundling is dependent on various factors, including the ability of TDS Telecom to continue to be able to partner with a provider of satellite television. Further, as technology advances, satellite TV service may become inferior to cable TV service. In addition, as TDS converges its services, it may be difficult to converge satellite TV service with TDS’ other services. 23 The successful execution of strategies, the optimal allocation within TDS’ portfolio of assets and optimal capital allocation decisions depend on various internal and external factors, many of which are not in TDS’ control. TDS’ ability to implement and execute its business strategies and optimally allocate its assets and capital and, as a result, achieve desired financial results, could be affected by such factors. Such factors include pricing practices by competitors, relative scale, purchasing power, roaming and other strategic agreements, wireless device availability, timing of introduction of wireless devices and other factors. In addition, there is no assurance that U.S. Cellular’s multi-year initiatives or TDS Telecom’s cost-reduction or customer-retention programs will be successful. Even if TDS executes its business strategies as intended, such strategies may not be successful in the long term to profitably sustain growth in revenues or otherwise. A failure by TDS to execute its business strategy successfully or to allocate resources or capital optimally could have an adverse effect on TDS’ wireless and wireline businesses, financial condition or results of operations. 3) A failure by TDS’ service offerings to meet customer expectations could limit TDS’ ability to attract and retain customers and could have an adverse effect on TDS’ operations. Customer acceptance of the services that TDS offers is and will continue to be affected by technology and range of device and service-based differences from competition and by the operational performance, quality, reliability, and coverage of TDS’ networks. TDS may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers if it is unable to meet customer expectations for a range of services, such as wireless device selection by U.S. Cellular and easy access to a broad variety of applications, or if it is otherwise unable to resolve quality issues relating to its networks, billing systems, or customer care or if any of those issues limit TDS’ ability to expand its network capacity or customer base, or otherwise place TDS at a competitive disadvantage to other service providers in its markets. The levels of customer demand for any TDS next-generation services and products are uncertain. Customer demand could be impacted by differences in the types of services offered, service content, technology, footprint and service areas, network quality, customer perceptions, customer care levels and rate plans. 4) TDS’ system infrastructure may not be capable of supporting changes in technologies and services expected by customers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant changes in technologies and services expected by customers. Future technological changes or advancements may enable other technologies to equal or exceed TDS’ current levels of service and render its system infrastructure obsolete. New technologies or services often render existing technology products, services or infrastructure obsolete, too costly or otherwise unmarketable. TDS’ system infrastructure may not be able to accommodate new product features and functionality, new reporting requirements, new capacity requirements or deployment of complex next generation services. If TDS is unable to meet future advances in or changes in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, it may not be able to compete effectively with other carriers, which could result in lost customers and revenues. This could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 5) An inability to obtain or maintain roaming arrangements with other carriers on terms that are acceptable to TDS could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ customers can access another carrier’s digital system automatically only if the other carrier allows TDS’ customers to roam on its network. TDS relies on roaming agreements with other carriers to provide roaming capability to its customers in areas of the U.S., Mexico and Canada outside of its service areas and to improve coverage within selected areas of TDS’ network footprint. Such agreements cover traditional voice services as well as data services, which are an area of strong growth for TDS and other carriers. Although TDS currently has long-term roaming agreements with certain other carriers, these agreements generally are subject to renewal and termination if certain events occur, including, without limitation, if network standards are not maintained. FCC rules require wireless carriers to offer some roaming arrangements to other carriers on reasonable terms and conditions. However, carriers frequently disagree on what constitutes reasonable terms and conditions. Pursuant to certain FCC proceedings, commercial mobile radio service providers are required to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services to other providers on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms; however, the FCC has not defined what this means. In addition, the FCC has not issued orders addressing roaming for data services, which are the subject of further pending proceedings. At this time, there is no assurance that TDS will be able to enter into or renegotiate existing agreements to provide data roaming services using LTE or other technologies or that it will be able to do so on reasonable or cost-effective terms. 24 Some competitors may be able to obtain lower roaming rates than TDS is able to obtain because they have larger call volumes or because of their affiliations with, or ownership of, wireless carriers, or may be able to reduce roaming charges by providing service principally over their own networks. In addition, the quality of service that a wireless carrier delivers during a roaming call may be inferior to the quality of service TDS provides, the price of a roaming call may not be competitive with prices of other wireless carriers for such call, and TDS’ customers may not be able to use some of the advanced features, such as voicemail notification or data applications, that TDS customers enjoy when making calls within TDS’ network. TDS’ rate of adoption of new technologies, such as those enabling high-speed data services, could affect its ability to enter into or maintain roaming agreements with other carriers. In addition, TDS’ wireless technology may not be compatible with technologies used by other carriers, which may limit the ability of TDS to enter into voice or data roaming agreements with such other carriers. TDS’ roaming partners could switch their business to new operators or, over time, to their own networks. Changes in roaming usage patterns, rates for roaming minutes or data use or relationships with carriers whose customers generate roaming minutes or data use on TDS’ network could have an adverse effect on TDS’ revenues and revenue growth. To the extent that TDS’ key roaming partners expand their networks in TDS’ service areas, the roaming arrangements between TDS and these key roaming partners could become less strategic to such key roaming partners. That is, these key roaming partners will have fewer or less extensive geographic areas where roaming services are required by their customers and, as a result, the roaming arrangements could become less critical to serving their customer base. This presents a risk to TDS in that to the extent TDS is not able to enter into economically viable roaming arrangements with key roaming partners, this could impact TDS’ ability to service its customer base in geographic areas where TDS does not have its own network. If TDS is unable to obtain or maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that contain pricing and other terms that are competitive and acceptable to TDS, and that satisfy TDS’ quality and interoperability requirements, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 6) TDS currently receives a significant amount of roaming revenues from its wireless business. As a result of acquisitions by other companies in the wireless industry, TDS roaming revenues have declined significantly from amounts earned in certain prior years. Further industry consolidation and continued build outs by other wireless carriers could cause roaming revenues to decline even more, which would have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. TDS’ revenues include roaming revenues related to the use of TDS’ network by other carriers’ customers who travel within TDS’ coverage areas. Changes in the network footprints of carriers due to mergers, acquisitions or network expansions also could have an adverse effect on TDS’ roaming revenues. For example, consolidation among other carriers which have network footprints that currently overlap TDS’ network could further decrease the amount of roaming revenues for TDS. Accordingly, further industry consolidation could cause roaming revenues to decline even more, which would have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 7) A failure by TDS to obtain access to adequate radio spectrum to meet current or anticipated future needs and/or to accurately predict future needs for radio spectrum could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business and operations. TDS’ wireless business depends on the ability to use portions of the radio spectrum licensed by the FCC. TDS could fail to obtain access to sufficient spectrum capacity in new or existing critical markets, whether through FCC auctions or other transactions, in order to meet the anticipated spectrum requirements associated with expected growth in customers and increased demand for existing services, and to enable deployment of next-generation services. In addition, TDS could fail to accurately forecast its future spectrum requirements considering changes in customer usage patterns, technology requirements and the expanded demands of new services. Such a failure could have a material adverse impact on the quality of TDS’ services or TDS’ ability to roll out such future services in some markets, or could require that TDS curtail existing services in order to make spectrum available for next-generation services. Spectrum constrained providers could be effectively capped in increasing market share. As they gain customers, they use up their network capacity. Since they lack spectrum, they can respond to demand only by adding cell sites, which is capital intensive, limited by zoning considerations, and ultimately may not be cost effective. If they become less cost-competitive, they may become unprofitable or be required to raise prices and lose customers, which would be an unsustainable position. TDS may acquire access to spectrum through a number of alternatives, including participation in spectrum auctions, partnering on a non-controlling basis with other auction applicants (“Other Applicants”) and other acquisitions and exchanges. As required by law, the FCC has conducted auctions for licenses to use some parts of the radio spectrum. The decision to conduct auctions, and the determination of what spectrum frequencies will be made available for auction are made by the FCC pursuant to laws that they administer. The FCC may not be able to allocate spectrum sufficient to meet the demands of all those wishing to obtain licenses for new market entry or to expand their spectrum holdings to meet the expanding demand for data services or to address other spectrum constraints. TDS or Other Applicants may not be successful in FCC auctions in obtaining the spectrum that either believes is necessary to implement its business and technology strategies. In addition, newly auctioned spectrum may not be compatible with existing spectrum, and vendors may not create suitable products to use such spectrum. Further, access to use spectrum won in FCC auctions may not be available on a timely basis. Such access is dependent upon the FCC actually granting licenses won in the various auctions, which can be delayed for various reasons, including the possible need for the FCC to transition current users of spectrum to other portions of the radio spectrum. TDS also may seek to acquire radio spectrum through purchases and exchanges with other spectrum licensees. However, TDS may not be able to acquire sufficient spectrum through these types of transactions, and TDS may not be able to complete any of these transactions on favorable terms. 8) To the extent conducted by the FCC, TDS is likely to participate in FCC auctions of additional spectrum in the future as an applicant or as a non-controlling partner in another auction applicant and, during certain periods, will be subject to the FCC’s anti-collusion rules, which could have an adverse effect on TDS. From time to time, the FCC conducts auctions through which additional spectrum is made available for the provision of wireless services. TDS has participated in such auctions in the past and is likely to participate in other auctions conducted by the FCC in the future as an applicant or as a non-controlling partner in another auction applicant. FCC anti-collusion rules place certain restrictions on business communications and disclosures by participants in an FCC auction. These anti-collusion rules may restrict the normal conduct of TDS’ business and/or disclosures by TDS relating to an FCC auction, which could last three to six months or more. The restrictions could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 9) Changes in the regulatory environment or a failure by TDS to timely or fully comply with any applicable regulatory requirements could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. TDS’ operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or increased regulation by these regulatory bodies could negatively impact TDS’ operations by, among other things, increasing TDS’ costs of doing business, permitting greater competition or limiting TDS’ ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. TDS’ wireless business requires licenses granted by the FCC to provide wireless telecommunications services. Typically, such licenses are issued for an initial ten-year term and may be renewed for additional ten-year terms, subject to FCC approval of the renewal applications. Failure to comply with FCC requirements in a given service area could result in the revocation of TDS’ license for that area or in the imposition of fines. Court decisions and rulemakings could have a substantial impact on TDS’ wireless operations, including rulemakings on intercarrier access compensation and universal service. Litigation and different objectives among federal and state regulators could create uncertainty and delay TDS’ ability to respond to new regulations. TDS is unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern TDS, but such actions could have material adverse effects on TDS’ wireless business. 26 TDS’ wireline operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or increased regulation by these regulatory bodies could negatively impact TDS’ operations by, among other things, increasing TDS’ costs of doing business, permitting greater competition or limiting TDS’ ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. TDS is unable to predict the future actions of the various regulatory bodies that govern TDS, but such actions could have material adverse effects on TDS’ wireline business. TDS’ ILECs have been granted permission to operate by each of the states in which they operate. TDS is subject to regulation from the regulatory commissions in each of these states as well as from the FCC. State regulatory commissions have primary jurisdiction over local and intrastate rates that TDS charges customers, including, without limitation, other telecommunications companies, and service quality standards. The FCC has primary jurisdiction over the interstate access rates that TDS charges other telecommunications companies that use TDS’ network and other issues related to interstate service. TDS receives a substantial amount of its ILEC revenues from interexchange carriers for providing access to its network and from compensation from the Universal Service Fund and other support funds. The FCC is re-examining all currently regulated forms of access charges and the prospect for continued access charges is uncertain. Furthermore, the FCC is reviewing the Universal Service Fund and applicable rules to assess the sustainability of the fund and is examining the process for determining the appropriate contributors, contribution rate, collection method, supported services, and the eligibility for and portability of payments. Changes in access charges and the Universal Service Fund that reduce the size of the fund and/or payments to TDS could have a material adverse impact on these sources of revenues. Future revenues, costs, and capital investment in TDS’ wireline business could be adversely affected by material changes to these regulations including but not limited to changes in intercarrier compensation, state and federal universal service support, loop (“UNE-L”) pricing and requirements, and VoIP regulation. Although TDS’ CLECs are not subject to regulatory review in the same way as the ILECs, the viability of their business model depends on FCC and state regulations. Court decisions and regulatory developments relating to UNE-L and access and transport options could negatively affect the CLEC’s ability to obtain access to certain local networks or to provide broadband services to end users and/or could increase the CLEC’s cost of providing some services. As a result of certain court decisions and regulatory developments, TDS has phased-out most of its CLEC operations that relied on an unbundled network element-platform provided by incumbent carriers. Moreover, the further loss of some access and transport options as a result of future developments would be unfavorable for TDS’ CLEC operations and could negatively affect their ability to provide broadband services to end users. Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the Recovery Act, which provides, among other things, for an aggregate appropriation of $7.2 billion to fund grants and loans to provide broadband infrastructure, access and equipment to consumers residing in rural, unserved or underserved areas of the United States. Under the Recovery Act, TDS Telecom will receive federal grants and will provide its own funds to complete designated projects. U.S. Cellular did not receive any grants of Recovery Act funds. The distribution of Recovery Act funds to other telecommunications service providers could impact competition in certain of U.S. Cellular’s and TDS Telecom’s service areas. In March 2010, the FCC released its National Broadband Plan (“the Plan”) which describes the FCC’s goals in enhancing broadband availability and the methods for achieving those goals over the next decade. The FCC notes that about one-half of the Plan will be addressed by the FCC, while the remainder would be addressed by Congress, the Executive Branch and state and local governments working closely with private and non-profit sectors. TDS cannot predict the outcome of these deliberations or what effects any final rules, regulations or laws may have on its ability to compete in the provision of wireline and wireless broadband services to its customer base. Changes in regulation or the amount or distribution of USF funds to U.S. Cellular, TDS Telecom and other telecommunications service providers could impact competition in certain of U.S. Cellular’s and TDS Telecom’s service areas, and could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. In 2009, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding designed to codify its existing “Net Neutrality” principles and impose new requirements that could have the effect of restricting the ability of wireless internet service providers to manage applications and content that traverse their networks. In December, 2010, after a lengthy proceeding, which considered different approaches, including the “reclassification” of internet access as “common carrier” service under Title II of the Communications Act, the FCC adopted a net neutrality rule based on its Title I “ancillary” authority to enforce different parts of the Communications Act. The rule requires all providers of broadband internet access, including both fixed (that is, telephone and cable) and wireless providers, to publicly disclose accurate information regarding their network management practices, performance and commercial terms sufficient for consumers to make informed choices regarding the use of such services. The rule also prohibits all internet providers from blocking consumers’ access to lawful websites, subject to reasonable network management, and from blocking applications that compete with the provider’s voice or video telephony services, also subject to reasonable network management. The rule subjects the providers of fixed but not wireless broadband internet access to a prohibition on “unreasonable discrimination” in transmitting internet traffic over their networks, also subject to reasonable network management. The exemption of wireless providers from this part of the rule reflects a recognition of the capacity constraints and other “special conditions” under which mobile broadband service is offered and the competitive nature of evolving wireless networks. Thus the FCC at this time considered it appropriate to take only the “measured steps” with respect to mobile broadband service reflected in the rule. The order is generally controversial and has been challenged in the courts. TDS cannot predict the outcome of such cases. 27 In addition, new or amended regulatory requirements could increase TDS’ costs and divert resources from other initiatives. TDS attempts to timely and fully comply with all regulatory requirements. However, in certain circumstances, TDS may not be able to timely or fully comply with all regulatory requirements due to various factors, including changes to regulatory requirements, limitations in or availability of technology, insufficient time provided for compliance, problems encountered in attempting to comply or other factors. Any failure by TDS to timely or fully comply with any regulatory requirements could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. 10) Changes in USF funding and/or intercarrier compensation could have a material adverse impact on TDS’ financial position or results of operations. Over the past several years, the FCC has been reviewing the Universal Service Fund (“USF”) and applicable rules to assess the sustainability of the USF, as well as the process for determining the appropriate contributors, contribution rate, collection method, supported services, and the eligibility and portability of payments. Congress also from time to time has considered reforming universal service support. The National Broadband Plan proposes that support for voice telecommunications networks be transitioned to support for the development of broadband networks and on February 8, 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on proposals to revamp the USF and provide support for broadband deployment and for reforming the existing intercarrier compensation regime. Reform of the existing intercarrier compensation regime - the means by which carriers pay or are compensated for originating and terminating traffic - may result in reductions of intercarrier compensation paid by carriers over time. While the timing is uncertain, the FCC has indicated that it expects to issue an order in this docket before the end of 2011. In May 2008, the FCC adopted a state-by-state temporary cap to funding for competitive ETCs based on the funding level available as of March 31, 2008. The imposition of the cap has had the effect of reducing the amount of support that U.S. Cellular would otherwise have been eligible to receive. The funding level under the cap is undergoing revision because of the time lag in the reporting of some cost inputs by local exchange carriers which is used in part to determine the amount of per line support that wireless ETCs are entitled to receive. This revision may further reduce funding under the cap and may result in the need to refund some payments that U.S. Cellular has received in excess of the revised cap amount. In October 2010, the FCC proposed creating a $100-300 million Mobility Fund to subsidize on a one time basis new wireless broadband development in unserved areas with subsidies awarded to low bidders under a reverse auction mechanism. On February 8, 2011, the FCC issued a NPRM to consider reform of the USF program and intercarrier compensation regime in response to the issuance of the National Broadband Plan in March 2010. Creation of the Mobility Fund and adoption of a USF reform proposal by the FCC to transition support from voice networks to broadband networks could have a significant and adverse impact on the amount of support, if any, wireless ETCs continue to receive. Reform of the existing intercarrier compensation regime - the means by which carriers pay or are compensated for originating and terminating traffic - may result in reductions of intercarrier compensation paid by carriers over time. The ultimate outcome and timing of these proceedings is unknown at this time. Over the past decade, the FCC and US Congress have periodically contemplated reforming the existing intercarrier compensation system, but have not issued any decision regarding this matter. While this discussion has continued at the federal level, several state regulatory and legislative entities have contemplated ways to lower intrastate access rates. If the FCC or state entities adopt changes in access charge regulations that reduce the revenues from interstate and/or potentially intrastate access charges, these changes could have a material adverse impact on TDS. TDS will attempt to replace lost access revenues through charges to customers or through alternative government support payments. If and when intercarrier compensation reform is implemented, certain compensatory provisions may allow, or require, state review of rates of return in order to qualify for such compensation. States may also independently review such rates of return prior to intercarrier compensation reform. Certain states could deem TDS’ rates of return too high and adjust intercarrier compensation accordingly. TDS is not able to predict what, if any, changes or actions ultimately will be adopted or taken by the FCC or state regulatory authorities or any other action that may be taken as a result of the foregoing proposals. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on TDS’ financial condition and results of operations. 11) An inability to attract and/or retain highly competent management, technical, sales and other personnel could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Due to competition for qualified management, technical, sales and other personnel and TDS’ relative size in comparison to much larger competitors, there can be no assurance that TDS will be able to continue to attract and/or retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of its business. The loss of the services of existing key personnel as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified personnel in a timely manner could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 12) TDS’ assets are concentrated in the U.S. telecommunications industry. As a result, its results of operations may fluctuate based on factors related entirely to conditions in this industry. TDS’ assets are concentrated in the U.S. telecommunications industry and, in particular, in the Midwestern portion of the United States. The U.S. telecommunications industry is facing significant change and an uncertain operating environment. TDS has not substantially diversified its revenue streams outside of its two principal business units, wireless and wireline telecommunications. TDS’ focus on the U.S. telecommunications industry, with concentrations of assets and operations in the Midwest, together with its positioning relative to larger competitors with greater resources within the industry, may represent increased risk for investors due to the lack of diversification. This could have an adverse effect on TDS’ ability to profitably sustain long-term revenue growth and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. 13) The completion of acquisitions by other companies has led to increased consolidation in the wireless telecommunications industry. TDS’ lower scale relative to larger wireless carriers has in the past and could in the future prevent or delay its access to new products including wireless devices, new technology and/or new content and applications which could adversely affect TDS’ ability to attract and retain customers and, as a result, could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. There has been a trend in the telecommunications and related industries in recent years towards consolidation of service providers through acquisitions, reorganizations and joint ventures. TDS expects this trend towards consolidation to continue, leading to larger competitors over time. TDS has lower scale efficiencies compared to larger competitors. TDS may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources or that offer more services than TDS, which could adversely affect TDS’ revenues and costs of doing business. Specifically, TDS’ smaller scale relative to most of its competitors could have the following impacts: · Increased operating costs due to lack of leverage with vendors · Limited opportunities for strategic partnerships as potential partners are focused on wireless and wireline carriers with greater scale · More limited access to content · Limited access to wireless devices as larger competitors enter into exclusive wireless device arrangements · Limited ability to influence industry standards · Reduced ability to invest in research and development of new products and services · Vendors may deem TDS non-strategic and not develop or sell products and services to TDS, particularly where technical requirements or specifications differ from those of larger companies · Limited access to intellectual property TDS’ businesses increasingly depend on access to content for data, music or video services and access to new wireless devices and other devices being developed by vendors. TDS’ ability to obtain such access depends in part on other parties. For example, filings in proceedings before the FCC have alleged that larger companies have entered into exclusive arrangements with wireless device manufacturers which have the potential to restrict the market availability of particular wireless devices. If TDS is unable to obtain timely access to content for data, music or video services or timely access to new wireless devices being developed by vendors, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 14) TDS’ inability to manage its supply chain or inventory successfully could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. Operation of TDS’ supply chain and management of its inventory require accurate forecasting of customer growth and demand, which has become increasingly challenging. If overall demand for wireless devices or the mix of demand for wireless devices is significantly different than TDS’ expectations, TDS could face inadequate or excess supplies of particular models of wireless devices. This could result in lost sales opportunities or an excess supply of inventory. Either of these situations could adversely affect TDS’ revenues, costs of doing business, results of operations or financial condition. 15) Changes in general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the markets in which TDS operates, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS’ operating results may be subject to factors which are outside of TDS’ control, including changes in general economic and business conditions. Such factors could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 16) Changes in various business factors could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in any of several factors could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. These factors include, but are not limited to: · Demand for or usage of services; · Customer preferences, including Internet speed and type of wireless devices; · Customer perceptions of network quality and performance; · The pricing of services; · The overall size and growth of TDS’ customer base; · Average revenue per unit; · Penetration rates; · Churn rates; · Selling expenses; · Net customer acquisition and retention costs; · Customers’ ability to pay for services and the potential impact on bad debts expense; · Roaming rates; · Voice minutes and data use; · The mix and costs of products and services offered by TDS and purchased by customers; and · The costs of providing products and services. 17) Advances or changes in telecommunications technology, such as Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”), High-Speed Packet Access (“HSPA”), WiMAX or Long-Term Evolution (“LTE”), could render certain technologies used by TDS obsolete, could put TDS at a competitive disadvantage, could reduce TDS’ revenues or could increase its costs of doing business. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new services, and products, and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Widespread deployment of technologies such as “Wi-Fi,” which does not rely on exclusively-licensed spectrum, advances in HSPA, and the deployment of fourth-generation technologies (“4G”) such as LTE or “WiMax,” could cause the technology used on TDS’ wireless networks to become less competitive or obsolete. In addition, wider deployment and use of Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) could cause a decrease in demand for TDS’ traditional circuit-switched telephone services. Specifically, VoIP providers have lower barriers to entry into the telecommunications business, are able to avoid access charges in many cases, and may use a strategy of offering voice service for free or at a marginally profitable rate in order to sell other services and content to customers. Also, high speed wireless networks (“wireless broadband”) represent a product offering and opportunity for TDS’ wireless business, but also represent a risk for TDS’ wireline business as customers may elect to substitute their wireline broadband connection for wireless broadband. Further, fixed-mobile convergence services that combine wireline broadband services with mobile services represent a competitive threat. TDS may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely or cost-effective basis, which could reduce its revenues or increase its costs of doing business. If TDS cannot keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the telecommunications industry over time, its financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business could be adversely affected. 18) Complexities associated with deploying new technologies present substantial risk. TDS has selected LTE technology as its approach to address demand for services enabled by fourth generation wireless technology. The deployment of LTE technology is impacted by a number of technical challenges. Manufacturers of wireless devices (“Original Equipment Manufacturers” or “OEMs”) must design and manufacture equipment that operates on the frequency bands available to TDS. This may involve software and hardware support for such bands in wireless device chip sets as well as band-specific designs for components such as filters. OEMs, chipset manufacturers, and component manufacturers will likely prioritize the support of frequency bands that are specified by the largest wireless carriers. Given TDS’ smaller scale relative to its competitors, it is likely that certain bands of spectrum licensed to TDS and its affiliates will represent a lower priority for chipset and wireless device manufacturers. As a result, the timing and the availability of wireless devices to support TDS’ LTE roll out is uncertain. 30 Additionally, the efficiency of LTE networks and the peak speeds they can provide are optimized when the technology is deployed in larger channel bandwidths that, in early releases of LTE, require larger amounts of contiguous spectrum. To the extent that TDS’ competitors have access to larger contiguous spectrum positions, they may be able to offer faster speeds or provision their networks more efficiently. The LTE standards body, 3GPP, is currently developing standards for the aggregation of non-contiguous spectrum so that network operators can assemble larger bandwidths for a better deployment of LTE. Because different operators have different spectrum band portfolios, such operators desire different aggregation configurations. The standard will likely not support all of these combinations in the first release of the aggregation feature. TDS’ preferred band aggregation plan is one that is being considered by 3GPP. If TDS’ plan is not among those chosen in the initial release, or if manufacturers do not choose to support the combinations in their equipment, TDS may not realize the same LTE data transfer speeds as competitors whose band combinations are chosen. Lack of wireless devices available to TDS to support its LTE roll out, comparatively smaller spectrum positions for initial LTE deployments, and eventually carrier aggregation standards that result in TDS delivering slower LTE data transfer speeds relative to its competitors, could have a material adverse impact on TDS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. TDS is deploying technologically advanced wireline services including advanced DSL and fiber optic technologies. A significant amount of the product development and integration risks are borne by TDS. Further, the simultaneous rollout of these advanced services and technologies increases the execution risk. If TDS fails to effectively deploy new technologies and products on a timely basis, this could have a material adverse impact on TDS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. 19) TDS could incur higher than anticipated intercarrier compensation costs. When customers use TDS’ service to call customers of other carriers, in certain circumstances TDS is required to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. For transport of calls between its cell sites and mobile telephone switching offices, TDS must often depend on facilities supplied by local telephone companies. The rates for such services are unregulated and sometimes excessive. If such “backhaul” rates remain as they are, they could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business as demand for such services increases in a broadband environment. An ongoing FCC rulemaking proceeding is examining whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime should be established for all traffic exchanged between all carriers. New intercarrier compensation rules, if adopted, may result in increases in the charges TDS is required to pay other carriers for terminating calls on their networks, increase the costs of or difficulty in negotiating new agreements with carriers, and decrease the amount of revenue it receives for originating or terminating calls from other carriers on TDS’ network. Any such changes may have a materially adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition and operating results. 20) TDS is subject to numerous surcharges and fees from federal, state and local governments, and the applicability and the amount of these fees are subject to great uncertainty. Telecommunications providers pay a variety of surcharges and fees on their gross revenues from interstate and intrastate services, including USF fees and common carrier regulatory fees. The division of services between interstate services and intrastate services, including the divisions associated with the federal USF fees, is a matter of interpretation and may in the future be contested by the FCC or state authorities. The FCC also may change in the future the basis on which federal USF fees are charged. The Federal government and many states also apply transaction-based taxes to sales of TDS products and services and to purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. In addition, state regulators and local governments have imposed and may continue to impose various surcharges, taxes and fees on TDS services. The applicability of these surcharges and fees to its services is uncertain in many cases and jurisdictions may contest whether TDS has assessed and remitted those monies correctly. Periodically state and federal regulators may increase or change the surcharges and fees TDS currently pays. In some instances TDS passes through these charges to its customers. However, Congress, the FCC, state regulatory agencies or state legislatures may limit the ability to pass through to customers transaction-based tax liabilities, regulatory surcharges and regulatory fees imposed on TDS. TDS may or may not be able to recover some or all of those taxes from its customers and the amount of taxes may deter demand for its services or increase its cost to provide service which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or operating results. 21) Changes in TDS’ enterprise value, changes in the market supply or demand for wireless licenses or wireline markets, adverse developments in the business or the industry in which TDS is involved and/or other factors could require TDS to recognize impairments in the carrying value of its license costs, goodwill and/or physical assets. A large portion of TDS’ assets consists of intangible assets in the form of licenses and goodwill. TDS also has substantial investments in long-lived assets such as property, plant and equipment. TDS reviews its licenses, goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss may need to be recognized to the extent the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of such assets. The amount of any such impairment loss could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ reported financial results for the period in which the loss is recognized. The estimation of fair values requires assumptions by management about factors that are uncertain including future cash flows, the appropriate discount rate and other factors. Different assumptions for these factors could create materially different results. 31 22) Costs, integration problems or other factors associated with developing and enhancing business support systems, acquisitions/divestitures of properties or licenses and/or expansion of TDS’ business could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. As part of TDS’ operating strategy, TDS may change the markets in which it operates and the services that it provides through the acquisition of other telecommunications service providers and related service businesses, the acquisition of selected licenses or operating markets from such providers or through direct investment or divestiture of current operations. The acquisition of additional businesses will depend on TDS’ ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and to finance any such acquisitions. TDS also will be subject to competition for suitable acquisition candidates. Any acquisitions, if made, could divert the resources and management time of TDS and would require integration with TDS’ existing business operations and services. As a result, there can be no assurance that any such acquisitions will occur or that any such acquisitions, if made, would be made in a timely manner or on terms favorable to TDS or would be successfully integrated into TDS’ operations. These transactions commonly involve a number of risks, including: · Ability to enter markets in which TDS has limited or no direct prior experience and competitors have stronger positions; · Ability to manage businesses that are engaged in activities other than traditional wireline and wireless service, including TDS’ acquisition of two Hosted and Managed Services businesses in 2010 engaged in the provision of data center, managed hosting and cloud computing services; · Uncertain revenues and expenses, with the result that TDS may not realize the growth in revenues, anticipated cost structure, profitability, or return on investment that it expects; · Difficulty of integrating the technologies, services, products, operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; · Diversion of management’s attention; · Disruption of ongoing business; · Impact on TDS’ cash and available credit lines for use in financing future growth and working capital needs; · Inability to retain key personnel; · Inability to successfully incorporate acquired assets and rights into TDS’ service offerings; · Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · Possible conditions to approval by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission and/or the Department of Justice; and · Impairment of relationships with employees, customers or vendors. Failure to overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in these transactions could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. If TDS expands into new telecommunications and related service businesses or markets, it may incur significant expenditures, a substantial portion of which must be made before any revenues will be realized. Such expenditures may increase as a result of the accelerated pace of regulatory and technological changes. Such expenditures, together with the associated high initial costs of providing service in new markets, may result in reduced cash flow until an adequate revenue base is established. There can be no assurance that an adequate revenue base will be established in any new technology or market which TDS pursues. If TDS expands into new telecommunications and related service businesses or markets, it will incur certain additional risks in connection with such expansion, including increased legal and regulatory risks, and possible adverse reaction by some of its current customers. Such businesses and markets are highly competitive and, as a new entrant, TDS may be disadvantaged. The success of TDS’ entry into new telecommunications and related service businesses or markets will be dependent upon, among other things, TDS’ ability to select new equipment and software and to integrate the new equipment and software into its operations, to hire and train qualified personnel and to enhance its existing administrative, financial and information systems to accommodate the new businesses or markets. No assurance can be given that TDS will be successful with respect to these efforts. If TDS is not successful with respect to its expansion initiatives, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 23) A significant portion of TDS’ wireless revenues is derived from customers who buy services through independent agents who market TDS’ services on a commission basis. If TDS’ relationships with these agents are seriously harmed, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. TDS has relationships with agents to obtain customers. Agents are independent business people who obtain customers for TDS on a commission basis. TDS’ agents are generally in the business of selling wireless telephones, wireless service packages and other related products. Also, TDS’ agents include major appliance dealers and car stereo companies. 32 TDS’ business and growth depends, in part, on the maintenance of satisfactory relationships with its agents. As a result of continued weak economic conditions, many companies, including certain TDS agents, are having financial difficulties. If such relationships are seriously harmed or if such parties experience further financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, TDS’ revenues and, as a result, its financial condition or results of operations, could be adversely affected. 24) TDS’ investments in technologies which are unproven may not produce the benefits that TDS expects. TDS is making investments in various new technologies and service and product offerings. These investments include technologies for enhanced data services offerings. TDS expects new services, products and solutions based on these new technologies to contribute to future growth in its revenues. However, the markets for some of these services, products and solutions are still emerging and the overall potential for these markets remains uncertain. If customer demand for these new services, products and solutions does not develop as expected, TDS’ financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 25) A failure by TDS to complete significant network construction and systems implementation activities as part of its plans to improve the quality, coverage, capabilities and capacity of its network and support systems could have an adverse effect on its operations. TDS’ business plan includes significant construction activities and enhancements to its network. As TDS deploys, expands, and enhances its network, it may need to acquire additional spectrum. Also, as TDS continues to build out and enhance its network, TDS must, among other things, continue to: · Lease, acquire or otherwise obtain rights to cell and switch sites; · Obtain zoning variances or other local governmental or third-party approvals or permits for network construction; · Complete and update the radio frequency design, including cell site design, frequency planning and network optimization, for each of TDS’ markets; and · Improve, expand and maintain customer care, network management, billing and other financial and management systems. Any difficulties encountered in completing these activities, as well as problems in vendor equipment availability, technical resources, system performance or system adequacy, could delay expansion of operations and product capabilities in new or existing markets or result in increased costs in all markets. Failure to successfully build out and enhance TDS’ network and necessary support facilities and systems in a cost-effective manner, and in a manner that satisfies customer expectations for quality and coverage, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. 26) Financial difficulties (including bankruptcy proceedings) or other operational difficulties of TDS’ key suppliers or vendors, termination or impairment of TDS’ relationships with such suppliers or vendors, or a failure by TDS to manage its supply chain effectively could result in delays or termination of TDS’ receipt of required equipment or services, or could result in excess quantities of required equipment or services, any of which could adversely affect TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS depends upon certain vendors to provide it with equipment, services or content to continue its network construction and upgrade and to operate its business. TDS does not have operational or financial control over such key suppliers and has limited influence with respect to the manner in which these key suppliers conduct their businesses. If these key suppliers experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy or experience other operational difficulties, they may be unable to provide equipment, services or content to TDS on a timely basis or cease to provide such equipment, services or content or otherwise fail to honor their obligations to TDS. In such case, TDS may be unable to maintain and upgrade its network or provide services to its customers in a competitive manner, or could suffer other disruptions to its business. In that event, TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 27) TDS has significant investments in entities that it does not control. Losses in the value of such investments could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. TDS has significant investments in entities that it does not control, including a 5.5% ownership interest in the Los Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership (the “LA Partnership”), and limited partnership interests in Aquinas Wireless L.P., King Street Wireless L.P., Barat Wireless L.P. and Carroll Wireless L.P. TDS’ interests in such entities do not provide TDS with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of these entities. TDS cannot provide assurance that these entities will operate in a manner that will increase the value of TDS’ investments, that TDS’ proportionate share of income from the LA Partnership will continue at the current level in the future or that TDS will not incur losses from the holding of such investments. Losses in the values of such investments or a reduction in income from the LA Partnership could adversely affect TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. 33 28) A failure by TDS to maintain flexible and capable telecommunication networks or information technology, or a material disruption thereof, including breaches of network or information technology security, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS relies extensively on its telecommunication networks and information technology to operate and manage its business, process transactions and summarize and report results. These networks and technology become obsolete over time and must be upgraded, replaced and/or otherwise enhanced over time. Enhancements must be more flexible and robust than ever before. All of this is capital intensive and challenging. A failure by TDS to maintain flexible and capable telecommunication networks or information technology could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. The increased provision of data services have introduced significant new demands on TDS’ network and have also increased complexities related to network management. As it relates to TDS’ wireline networks, the transition to new IP-based networks from well established time-division multiplexing networks requires new support tools and technician skills. Further, this transition requires the use of more leased facilities and partnerships which require enhanced network monitoring and controls. The IP-based networks also generally require more electronics on customers’ premises which introduces more technical risks and makes diagnostics and repairs more difficult. Further, the increased provision of data services on TDS’ networks has created an increased level of risk related to quality of service. This is due to the fact that many customers, particularly commercial customers, increasingly rely on data communications to execute and validate transactions. As a result, redundancy and geographical diversity of TDS’ network facilities are critical to providing uninterrupted service. Also, the speed of repair and maintenance procedures in the event of network interruptions is critical to maintaining customer satisfaction. TDS’ ability to maintain high quality, uninterrupted service to its customers is critical, particularly given the increasingly competitive environment and customers’ ability to choose other service providers. In addition, TDS’ networks and information technology are subject to damage or interruption due to various events, including power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, hackers, catastrophic events, natural disasters, errors or unauthorized actions by employees and vendors, flawed conversion of systems, disruptive technologies and technology changes. If TDS’ networks and information technology are not adequately adapted to changes in technology or are damaged or fail to function properly, and/or if TDS’ security is breached or otherwise compromised, TDS could suffer material adverse consequences, including loss of critical and private data, including customer data, interruptions or delays in its operations, inaccurate billings, inaccurate financial reporting, and significant costs to remedy the problems. If TDS’ systems become unavailable or suffer a security breach of customer or other data, TDS may be required to expend significant resources and take various actions to address the problems, including notification under data privacy laws and regulations, may be subject to fines, sanctions and litigation, and its reputation and operating results could be adversely affected. Any material disruption in TDS’ networks or information technology, including security breaches, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 29) Wars, conflicts, hostilities and/or terrorist attacks or equipment failures, power outages, natural disasters or other events could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Wars, conflicts, hostilities, terrorist attacks, major equipment failures, power outages, natural disasters, or similar disasters or failures that affect TDS’ wireless or wireline telephone switching offices, information systems, microwave links, third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which TDS relies, TDS’ cell sites or other equipment or the networks of other providers which TDS customers use or on which they roam could have a material adverse effect on TDS’ operations. Although TDS has certain back-up and similar arrangements, TDS has not established a formal, comprehensive business continuity or emergency response plan at this time. As a result, under certain circumstances, TDS may not be prepared to continue its operations, respond to emergencies or recover from disasters or other similar events. TDS’ inability to operate its telecommunications systems or access or operate its information systems even for a limited time period may result in a loss of customers or impair TDS’ ability to serve customers or attract new customers, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 30) The market prices of TDS’ Common Shares and Special Common Shares are subject to fluctuations due to a variety of factors. Factors that may affect the future market prices of TDS’ Common Shares and Special Common Shares include: · General economic conditions, including conditions in the credit and financial markets; · Wireless and telecommunications industry conditions; · Fluctuations in TDS’ quarterly customer additions, churn rate, revenues, results of operations or cash flows; · Variations between TDS’ actual financial and operating results and those expected by analysts and investors; and · Announcements by TDS’ competitors. Any of these or other factors could adversely affect the future market prices of TDS’ Common Shares or Special Common Shares, or could cause the future market prices of TDS’ Common Shares or Special Common Shares to fluctuate from time to time. 34 31) Identification of errors in financial information or disclosures could require amendments to or restatements of financial information or disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. Such amendments or restatements and related matters, including resulting delays in filing periodic reports with the SEC , could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. TDS prepares its consolidated financial statement in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and files such financial statements with the SEC in accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations. The possible identification of any errors in such prior filings with the SEC could require restatements of financial information or amendments to disclosures included in this or prior filings with the SEC. Restatements and delays in filing reports with the SEC could have adverse consequences, including the following: TDS’ credit ratings could be downgraded, which would result in an increase in its borrowing costs and could make it more difficult for TDS to borrow funds on satisfactory terms. The lenders on TDS’ and U.S. Cellular’s revolving credit agreements could refuse to waive a default or extend a waiver of default, impose restrictive covenants or conditions or require increased payments and fees. The holders of debt under TDS’ indenture could attempt to assert a default and, if successful and TDS does not cure the default in a timely manner, accelerate such debt. The New York Stock Exchange could begin delisting proceedings with respect to the TDS Common Shares, TDS Special Common Shares and TDS debt that is listed thereon. TDS may not be able to use or file shelf registration statements on Form S-3 for an extended period of time, which may limit TDS’ ability to access the capital markets. TDS may not be able to use Form S-8 registration statements relating to its employee benefit plans, which may have an adverse affect on TDS’ ability to attract and retain employees. TDS also could face shareholder litigation or SEC enforcement action. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 32) The existence of material weaknesses in the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or failure to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, TDS is required to furnish a report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as part of its Form 10-K filed with the SEC. TDS management also is required to report on the effectiveness of TDS’ disclosure controls and procedures. The independent auditors of TDS are required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Material weaknesses could result in inaccurate financial statements or other disclosures or failure to prevent fraud, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, if TDS does not successfully remediate any known material weaknesses in a timely manner, it could be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities such as the SEC, it could fail to timely meet its regulatory reporting obligations, or investor perceptions could be negatively affected; each of these potential consequences could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 33) Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities, claims, litigation or otherwise, could require TDS to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. The preparation of financial statements requires TDS to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. TDS bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions and information that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Changes in facts or circumstances, including new or additional information that affects the calculation of potential liabilities for contingent obligations under guarantees, indemnities, claims, litigation or otherwise, could require TDS to record charges in excess of amounts accrued in the financial statements, if any, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. 35 34) Disruption in credit or other financial markets, a deterioration of U.S. or global economic conditions or other events, could, among other things, impede TDS’ access to or increase the cost of financing its operating and investment activities and/or result in reduced revenues and lower operating income and cash flows, which would have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition or results of operations. Disruptions in the credit and financial markets, declines in consumer confidence, increases in unemployment, declines in economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings could have a significant negative impact on the U.S. and global financial and credit markets and the overall economy. Such events could have an adverse impact on financial institutions resulting in limited access to capital and credit for many companies. Furthermore, economic uncertainties make it very difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Changes in economic conditions, changes in financial markets, deterioration in the capital markets or other factors could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial position, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. 35) Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, other changes in market conditions, changes in TDS’ credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to TDS, which could require TDS to reduce its construction, development or acquisition programs. TDS and its subsidiaries operate capital-intensive businesses. TDS has used internally-generated funds and has also obtained substantial funds from external sources to finance the build out and enhancement of markets, to fund acquisitions and for general corporate purposes. TDS also may require substantial additional capital for, among other uses, acquisitions of providers of wireless or wireline telecommunications services, related service business acquisitions, spectrum license or system acquisitions, system development and network capacity expansion. There can be no assurance that sufficient funds will continue to be available to TDS or its subsidiaries on terms or at prices acceptable to TDS. Uncertainty of access to capital for telecommunications companies, deterioration in the capital markets, reduced regulatory capital at banks which in turn limits their ability to borrow, other changes in market conditions, changes in TDS’ credit ratings or other factors could limit or restrict the availability of financing on terms and prices acceptable to TDS, which could require TDS to reduce its construction, development and acquisition programs. Reduction of TDS’ construction, development and acquisition programs likely would have a negative impact on TDS’ consolidated revenues, income and cash flows. 36) Settlements, judgments, restraints on its current or future manner of doing business and/or legal costs resulting from pending and future litigation could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. TDS is regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before the FCC and various state and federal courts. Such legal proceedings can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. The assessment of legal proceedings is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events. The amounts ultimately received or paid upon settlement or other resolution of litigation and other contingencies may differ materially from amounts accrued in the financial statements. In addition, litigation or similar proceedings could impose restraints on TDS’ current or future manner of doing business. Such potential outcomes could have an adverse effect on TDS’ financial condition, results of operations or ability to do business. 37) The possible development of adverse precedent in litigation or conclusions in professional studies to the effect that radio frequency emissions from wireless devices and/or cell sites cause harmful health consequences, including cancer or tumors, or may interfere with various electronic medical devices such as pacemakers, could have an adverse effect on TDS’ wireless business, financial condition or results of operations. Media reports have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless devices may be linked to various health problems, including cancer or tumors, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage use of wireless devices or expose TDS to potential litigation. Any resulting decrease in demand for wireless services or costs of litigation and damage awards could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, some studies have indicated that some aspects of using wireless devices while driving may impair drivers’ attention in certain circumstances, making accidents more likely. These concerns could lead to potential litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries, any of which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Numerous state and local legislative bodies have enacted or proposed legislation restricting or prohibiting the use of wireless devices while driving motor vehicles. These enacted or proposed laws or other similar laws, if passed, could have the effect of reducing customer usage and/or increasing costs, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition, or results of operations. 36 38) Claims of infringement of intellectual property and proprietary rights of others, primarily involving patent infringement claims, could prevent TDS from using necessary technology to provide services or subject TDS to expensive intellectual property litigation or monetary penalties, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. If technology that TDS uses in products or services were determined by a court to infringe a patent or other intellectual property right held by another person, TDS could be precluded from using that technology and could be required to pay significant monetary damages. TDS also may be required to pay significant royalties to such person to continue to use such technology in the future. The successful enforcement of any intellectual property rights, or TDS’ inability to negotiate a license for such rights on acceptable terms, could force TDS to cease using the relevant technology and offering services incorporating the technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that TDS’ products or services infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of another, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the effort and attention of TDS’ management and technical personnel. Regardless of the merits of any specific claim, TDS cannot give assurance that it would prevail in litigation because of the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. Although TDS generally seeks to obtain indemnification agreements from vendors that provide it with technology, there can be no assurance that any claim of infringement will be covered by an indemnity or that TDS will be able to recover all or any of its losses and costs under any available indemnity agreements. Any claims of infringement of intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent TDS from using necessary technology to provide its services or subject TDS to expensive intellectual property litigation or monetary penalties, which could have an adverse effect on TDS’ business, financial condition or results of operations. 39) Certain matters, such as control by the TDS Voting Trust and provisions in the TDS Restated Certificate of Incorporation, may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of TDS. The TDS Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and the TDS bylaws contain provisions which may serve to discourage or make more difficult a change in control of TDS without the support of the TDS Voting Trust and the TDS Board of Directors or without meeting various other conditions. The TDS Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, authorizes the issuance of different series of common stock, which have different voting rights. The TDS Series A Common Shares have the power to elect approximately 75% (less one) of the directors and have ten votes per share in matters other than the election of directors. The TDS Common Shares (with one vote per share) and TDS Special Common Shares (with one vote per share) vote as a separate group only with respect to the election of 25% (plus one) of the directors. In matters other than the election of such directors, the TDS Common Shares have one vote per share and the TDS Special Common Shares have no votes except as required by law. As a result, the TDS Special Common Shares would generally not have any vote in connection with any change of control transaction involving TDS. A substantial majority of the outstanding TDS Series A Common Shares are held in the TDS Voting Trust which expires on June 30, 2035. The TDS Voting Trust was created to facilitate the long-standing relationships among the trustees’ certificate holders. By virtue of the number of shares held by them, the voting trustees have the power to elect eight directors based on the current TDS Board of Directors’ size of 12 directors, and control a majority of the voting power of TDS with respect to matters other than the election of directors. The existence of the TDS Voting Trust is likely to deter any potential unsolicited or hostile takeover attempts or other efforts to obtain control of TDS and may make it more difficult for shareholders to sell shares of TDS at higher than market prices. The trustees of the TDS Voting Trust have advised TDS that they intend to maintain the ability to keep or dispose of voting control of TDS. The TDS Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, also authorizes the TDS Board of Directors to designate and issue TDS Undesignated Shares in one or more classes or series of preferred or common stock from time to time. Generally, no further action or authorization by the shareholders is necessary prior to the designation or issuance of the additional TDS Undesignated Shares authorized pursuant to the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, unless applicable laws or regulations would require such approval in a given instance. Such TDS Undesignated Shares could be issued in circumstances that would serve to preserve control of TDS’ then existing management. In addition, the TDS Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, includes a provision which authorizes the TDS Board of Directors to consider various factors, including effects on customers, taxes, and the long-term and short-term interests of TDS, in the context of a proposal or offer to acquire or merge the corporation, or to sell its assets, and to reject such offer if the TDS Board of Directors determines that the proposal is not in the best interests of the corporation based on such factors. The provisions of the TDS restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and the TDS bylaws and the existence of various classes of capital stock could prevent shareholders from profiting from an increase in the market value of their shares as a result of a change in control of TDS by delaying or preventing such change in control. 37 40) Any of the foregoing events or other events could cause customer net additions, revenues, operating income, capital expenditures and/or any other financial or statistical information to vary from TDS’ forward-looking estimates by a material amount. From time to time, TDS may disclose forward-looking information, including estimates of future operating income; depreciation, amortization and accretion expenses; service revenues; net retail customer additions; and/or capital expenditures. Any such forward-looking information includes consideration of known or anticipated changes to the extent disclosed, but unknown or unanticipated events, including but not limited to the risks discussed above, could cause such estimates to differ materially from the actual amounts. 38 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 