D. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Generally Our revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past, and may continue to fluctuate. Factors that are likely to cause these fluctuations, some of which are outside of our control, include, without limitation: • the current economic environment and other developments in the telecommunications industry in which Qiao Xing Mobile Communication Co., Ltd. (“QXM”) operates and the mining industry in which our other subsidiaries operate; • the mix of our products sold (particularly products of QXM), including inventory items with low product costs; • Our ability to control expenses, particularly at QXM; • fluctuations in demand for and sales of QXM’s products, the acceptance of its products in the marketplace, and the general level of spending in the telecommunications industry; 5 Table of Contents • QXM’s ability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity, and particularly to limit excess capacity commensurate with the volatile demand levels for its products; • QXM’s ability to successfully complete a transition to an outsourced manufacturing model and our ability to transition to a pure resources business; • the ability of outsourced manufacturers to timely produce and deliver subcomponents to QXM, and possibly complete products in the quantity and of the quality QXM requires; • competitive factors, including the introduction of new products and product enhancements by competitors and potential competitors, pricing pressures, and the competitive environment in the markets into which QXM sells its products, including competitors with substantially greater resources than QXM; • our (and particularly QXM’s) ability to effectively develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • the availability and cost of components for our (and particularly QXM’s) products; • new product introductions that may result in increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter, with revenues, if any, that are not recognized until a subsequent or later quarter; and • the unpredictability of consumer demand and difficulties in meeting such demand. A high percentage of our expenses, particularly those of QXM related to manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions, are fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating and recognizing revenue, our quarterly operating results are likely to be significantly impacted. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as any indication of our future performance. It is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock likely would decrease. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly and is likely to remain volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of other telecommunications companies and mining companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of telecommunications-related companies and mining companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technology innovations, new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; • any deviations in our net revenues or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; 6 Table of Contents • future sales of our common stock; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of telecommunications-related companies. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many companies, particularly in the case of mainland China-based companies, which in some instances is unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We experience intense competition with respect to our products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, some of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, our competitors that have larger market capitalization or cash reserves are better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of each of our customer’s financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. As of December 31, 2009 and 2010, our five largest accounts receivable accounted for approximately 93.7% and 73.0% of our total accounts receivable. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially adversely affect our competitive position. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the higher level of government involvement; • the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; • the rapid growth rate; • the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over the telecommunications industry, capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us or QXM. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. For example, efforts by the PRC government to manage the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by mobile telecommunication network operators, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. 7 Table of Contents Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of mobile communications investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In particular, any adverse change in the PRC government’s policies towards the mobile communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries and creates significant risks. As substantially all of our operations are conducted in Mainland China, it is subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in Mainland China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi (“RMB”) which must be converted into other currencies before remittance outside Mainland China. Both the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies abroad require the approval of the Mainland Chinese government. Our currency is not freely convertible. The State Administration for Exchange Control (“SAEC”), under the authority of the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (“CFETS”) market. Since substantially all of our raw materials are provided by local suppliers using Renminbi and the majority of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi, restrictions on currency conversions did not materially affect our operations. Also, since we do not expect to require any raw materials that are not permitted or are limited to purchase using foreign currencies, our management believes that such restriction will not materially affect our operations in the future. However, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments, and our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to restrictions on the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars and, as a result, may be restricted from making distributions to us. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage for damage to our Chinese factories. We currently maintain fire, casualty and theft insurance covering several of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment, and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not sufficiently cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our or our subsidiaries’ factories due to fire, severe weather, flooding or other causes, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. 8 Table of Contents The dividends that our BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries receive from their subsidiaries in the PRC and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our foreign corporate holders of ordinary shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon any dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares, if it is classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. BVI, where our investment holding subsidiaries are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If these BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries are considered non-resident enterprises, this new 10% withholding tax imposed on their dividend income received from their PRC subsidiaries would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on its operating results. Under the new tax law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new tax law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if our BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries are classified as resident enterprises, the dividends they receive from their PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from income tax. In addition, under the new tax law, foreign corporate holders of our common stock may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by it and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of common stock, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in BVI, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign corporate holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the return on an investment in our common stock by a foreign corporation. We depend upon certain key personnel to manage our business. Our ability to successfully carry out our business plans continues to be largely dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and executive officers, particularly our chairman, Rui Lin Wu. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wu and the loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Further, we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policy on Mr. Wu’s life. We are controlled by one of our shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Rui Lin Wu, our chief executive officer and chairman, and members of his family beneficially own or control approximately 41.5% of our outstanding common stock as of July 14, 2011. Accordingly, he has substantial control and influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval and also has substantial control over our business. He also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without his consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Mr. Wu may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Mr. Wu may take actions that could have a material adverse impact on us, such as influencing the way we allocates our resources, restricting our entry into certain kinds of businesses and preventing us from pursuing certain business opportunities that may be beneficial and profitable to us and our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in 9 Table of Contents control of us, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of us and might reduce the price of our ordinary shares. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations and conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may adversely affect the amount received by U.S. shareholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. As a “foreign private issuer,” we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq with which other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • Our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of our board of directors; and • We are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a BVI holding company, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon them. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of BVI or China would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in BVI or China, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, it is exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; 10 Table of Contents • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a BVI company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. BVI law protecting the interests of shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. Specifically, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets not exceeding 50% of its assets in value, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend its Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. Risk Factors Related to Our Mining Operations in China We face significant risks related to our transition from a telecommunications business to a resources business. We shifted our business focus from the telecommunications industry to the resources industry with our acquisition of CLJL in April 2009 and only started commercial production of molybdenum concentrate in July 2009. We are trying to further consolidate and become a pure resources company with meaningful scale and a focus on strategically important metals. As a result of our new strategic direction, we divested our fixed line and low-end mobile phone business on November 30, 2009. Additionally, we acquired a 100% equity interest in Xinyuan Mining, which owns a mining license for a lead-zinc-copper mine, on January 4, 2011 and a 34.53% equity interest in Aolunhua, an open-pit copper-molybdenum mine, on December 28, 2010. We intend to grow our resources business through selectively acquiring attractive and high-quality mining assets. Our pure resources strategy is new and is still in the development stage. There are significant risks and costs inherent in our efforts to transition to a pure resources company. These include the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate mining assets that we have acquired or that we acquire in the future into our business, may not be able to acquire on favorable terms quality mining assets or successfully develop any quality mining assets that we do acquire; we may be unable to attract and retain employees with resource industry expertise; and we may be unable to achieve appropriate scale or earn adequate revenues from the sale of molybdenum, lead, zinc, copper or other minerals. There are other significant risks related to the resources industry discussed below. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of operations. We have a limited operating history in the resources industry. We have a limited history operating in the resources industry as we were focused on the telecommunications industry until early 2009. Our shift from the telecommunications industry to the resources industry has required 11 Table of Contents significant changes in our business processes and strategies and a number of significant personnel changes. Although to date we have generated modest operating income from its molybdenum mine, such results are not an indication of future performance and there can be no assurance that our resource business will continue to be profitable. To the extent we face difficulties in implementing our pure resources strategy or our mining business does not perform as anticipated, our business, operating results and financial conditions will suffer. Our failure to successfully execute on our resources strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. We currently anticipate that for the foreseeable future we will spend significant resources on acquiring and developing mining and resource related assets. Such investments may include acquisition costs, exploration and testing expenses to determine mineral reserves and capital investments to commence commercial production among others. Our success in implementing this new strategic focus is subject to a number of risks, including our ability to identify, evaluate and acquire high quality mining assets, successfully develop any quality mining assets that we do acquire, attract and retain employees with resource industry expertise, achieve appropriate scale, earn adequate revenues from the sale of molybdenum, lead, zinc or copper or other minerals and other significant risks related to the resources industry as discussed below. In addition, the implementation of these strategies may cause disruptions to our ongoing business, including relationships with our personnel, suppliers and partners. We may not be successful in implementing our pure resources strategy. Our failure to successfully implement our pure resources strategy may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in the market prices of molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend significantly upon the market prices of molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper, which historically have fluctuated widely. Molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper prices depend primarily on the demand in the end-user markets in which molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper are used. The end-user markets for molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper include the steel, construction and chemical industries. These industries, as well as other industries that use molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper exhibit a cyclical business cycle. Many of the factors that affect the demand for molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper are beyond our control, including the general level of industrial production in the PRC and other countries, interest rates, the rate of inflation and the stability of exchange rates. Such external factors are influenced by changes in international investment markets, international monetary systems and internal and external political developments. Future declines in the prices of molybdenum, lead, zinc or copper could materially limit our ability to generate working capital, profits and cash flows from operations. Severe declines in molybdenum, lead, zinc or copper prices could cause us to temporarily close one or more of our mine or plant facilities. Furthermore, a significant decrease in molybdenum, lead, zinc or copper prices could require us to revise our mineral reserve calculations and life-of-mine plans. Such a revision could result in material write-downs of our proven and probable reserves and other long-lived assets and have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Estimates of proven and probable mineral reserves and other mineralized material may prove to be inaccurate. Estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material involve numerous assumptions and are subject to uncertainties. The estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material disclosed herein are, therefore, only estimates. Therefore, we cannot assure that our estimates of proven and probable reserves and tonnages and grade of molybdenum, lead, zinc, copper and other mineralized material will be achieved in the future, that the indicated level of recovery will be realized or that we can mine and process the estimated proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material profitably. The actual production of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material depends on a number of factors including, among 12 Table of Contents others, geological and mining conditions, the effects of and changes in government regulation, prevailing molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper prices, exchange rates, interest rates and inflation rates, operating costs, development costs, equipment and plant maintenance costs, site restoration costs and the availability and cost of labor, equipment, raw materials and other services required to mine and process the ore. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that the recovery rates we have produced in small-scale laboratory tests can be duplicated in on-site conditions during production. Estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, including the classifications thereof based on probability of recovery, may vary substantially if prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times. If our actual proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material prove to be less than our estimates, or if such reserves cannot be extracted and processed as expected, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially impaired. Our exploration activities may not result in discoveries of proven and probable reserves and commercial quantities of molybdenum. Exploration and development of mineral deposits involves substantial risks. Only a few properties that are explored are eventually developed into producing mines, and the success of exploration activities depends on a number of factors, including the attributes of the deposit such as size and grade, prevailing molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper prices and government regulations relating to exploration and mining rights, royalties, and other matters. Exploration activities may need to occur for a number of years before commercially viable ore deposits are discovered and developed, and we may incur substantial expenses to locate and establish proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. We cannot provide assurance that exploration and development activities will give rise to new commercial mining operations or actually result in the extraction of new proven reserves. Our ability to sustain current molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper production levels or to increase molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper production levels depends on our ability to bring new mines into production or to expand proven and probable reserves at the existing mines. We generate revenues from our mining operations primarily through the production and sale of molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper. Without any future expansion or other development, production from our existing mines are expected to decline over the life of the mines. Furthermore, the production estimates in the life-of-mine plan for our existing mining operations may vary materially from the actual production because the feasibility of extracting and processing proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material is dependent on market conditions, the regulatory environment and available technology. Therefore, our ability to maintain our current production or increase our annual production of molybdenum, lead, zinc and copper and generate revenues depends to a large extent on our ability to discover or acquire new proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, to bring new mines into production and to expand the proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material at our existing mines. Mining operations are subject to conditions or events beyond our control which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our insurance policies may not adequately cover all these risks and hazards. Mining operations, including the exploration and development of mineral deposits, involve a high degree of risk. Our operations are subject to a host of hazards and risks normally associated with the exploration, development and production of molybdenum, lead, zinc or copper. These hazards and risks include, among others, adverse environmental conditions, hazardous or inclement weather conditions, accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, ground or slope failures, structural cave-ins or slides, flooding or fires, seismic activity and equipment failures. These hazards and risks could give rise to, among other impacts, damage to, or destruction of, the mine, processing facilities and equipment. The hazards and risks could also cause personal injury or death, delays in mining, monetary losses and potential legal liability. Our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with our mining operations. Certain of our risks are insurable, but it may be unable to maintain 13 Table of Contents insurance to cover the hazards and risks at affordable premiums. Furthermore, insurance to cover risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of mining or processing operations is generally not available on acceptable terms. We could, therefore, become subject to liability for pollution or other risks for which we do not have insurance or against which we elect not to obtain insurance because of premium costs or other factors. Also, insurance even if applicable to a particular loss, frequently does not fully compensate for the loss of productivity that may arise in connection with a casualty event, or for fines, penalties or assessments that may be incurred or loss of business reputation that may be sustained in connection therewith. Uninsured risks may cause us to incur significant costs that could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to acquire desirable mining assets in the future. We intend to grow our business by selectively acquiring attractive and high-quality mining assets, but there is no assurance we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. Our ability to acquire and integrate future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of desirable acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources, competition from other mining companies and our ability to finance such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of strategic acquisitions or investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business and harm our financial condition. As part of our growth strategy, we will continue to explore and make strategic investments in businesses that are complementary or additive to our core business. For instance, on January 4, 2011 we acquired the 100% equity interest in Xinyuan, which owns a mining license for a lead-zinc mine in Balinzuo Banner in Inner Mongolia, PRC, and on December 28, 2010, we acquired a 34.53% equity interest in Aolunhua, which owns an open-pit copper-molybdenum mine in Inner Mongolia, PRC covering 14.38 square kilometers. We expect to utilize Xinyuan and Aolunhua to further strengthen and broaden our mining business. However, the success of these acquisitions depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control. Mergers and acquisitions and strategic investments are inherently subject to significant risks. For instance, the commercial aspects and goals of an acquisition may not materialize as desired or yield the commercial benefits sought. Moreover, regardless of whether the commercial aspects and goals of the acquisitions prove to be positive, an acquisition of or a strategic investment in another company comes with the typical investment risks, such as the partial or total loss of investment in the worst case. Our inability to pinpoint and make favorable strategic investments, from both a commercial and investment perspective and our inability to effectively manage the associated risks could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In the case of Xinyuan or Aolunhua, they may decline in value and/or may not meet our desired objectives. If we do not successfully manage the risks associated with these and other acquisitions and strategic investments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The development of mining projects is inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect our cash flows. There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in mining development projects, including our ongoing development of our mines. The economic feasibility of mining development projects is dependent on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and the future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or infrastructure in existing mines are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can significantly affect project economics. It is, therefore, possible that the actual costs and economic returns on mining development projects may differ materially from our estimates. New mining development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. Mining development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, the acquisition of government permits, the acquisition of exploration or mining rights, negotiating energy and water supplies and other factors. It is possible that we could fail to successfully complete these matters in which case the project 14 Table of Contents may not proceed, on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience problems during the development or start-up phases of the project, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. Intense competition in the mining industry could reduce our market share or harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The mining industry is extremely competitive, and we compete with many mining companies that possess greater financial and technical resources. Because mineral rights have a limited life, we must compete with other mining companies who also seek to increase their mineral reserves through the acquisition of exploration and mining rights. Furthermore, we compete with other mining companies for the technical expertise to find, develop and operate its mining properties, for skilled labor, for equipment and spare parts and for the capital to fund the acquisition, development and operation of its properties. Existing or future competition in the mining industry could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The temporary shutdown of our mining operations could expose us to significant costs and adversely affect our access to skilled labor. We may have to temporarily or permanently shut down our mines from time to time if we no longer consider them to be commercially viable. There are a number of factors that may cause us to reach a conclusion that the operation of a particular mine is no longer commercially viable, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include adverse changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, decreases in the prevailing price of molybdenum, zinc, lead and copper or the market rates for treatment and refining charges and increases in transportation and labor costs. During a temporary shutdown of any of our mines, we would have to continue to expend capital to maintain the mine’s plant and equipment. We may incur significant labor costs as a result of a temporary or permanent shutdown if we are required to give employees notice prior to any layoff or to pay severance for an extended layoff. In addition, temporary or permanent shutdowns may adversely affect our future access to skilled labor, as employees who are laid off may seek employment elsewhere. Furthermore, if any of our mining operations are shut down for an extended period of time, we may be required to engage in environmental remediation of the plant and mine sites, which would result in us incurring additional costs. Taking into consideration the costs of a shutdown, we may choose to operate the mine at a loss rather than shut down the property. Either a temporary shutdown or continuing to operate a mine at a loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our mining operations give rise to environmental risk. All of our mining operations are subject to environmental regulation in the PRC. Environmental regulation is evolving in the PRC and may in the future require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. We can provide no assurance that existing or future environmental regulation will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We own or have control of properties that may result in a requirement to remediate such properties that could involve material costs. Furthermore, environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which we hold interests that are unknown to us at the present time that have been caused by previous owners or operators of the properties. We may also acquire properties in the future that pose environmental risks. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements in the PRC may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective action requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. We may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage from the mining operations and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Future changes to current laws, regulations and permits governing the operations and activities of mining companies in the PRC, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Such changes could result in increases in exploration expenses, remedial and reclamation obligations, capital expenditures or production costs, reductions in the levels of production at the producing mine or abandonment or delays in the development of new mining properties or the expansion of the existing property. Mineral ores and mineral products, including molybdenum ore and molybdenum products, lead ore and lead products, zinc ore and zinc products, and copper ore and copper products, contain naturally occurring impurities and toxic substances. We have implemented procedures designed to identify, isolate and safely remove or reduce impurities or toxic substances that are naturally occurring in molybdenum ore and molybdenum products, lead ore and lead products, zinc ore and zinc products, and copper ore and copper products. Such procedures require strict adherence, and we cannot provide assurance that employees, contractors or other parties will adhere to these procedures or will not be exposed to or affected by such impurities and toxic substances. Employees, contractors and other parties who are exposed to or affected by these impurities and toxic substances may give rise to liabilities for us. Even if procedures are strictly adhered to by employees, contractors and other parties, there is still a risk that they will be exposed to or affected by impurities and toxic substances in the course of operations of the mine. Such incidences may result in requirements that we take remedial action, may result in the curtailment of mining operations and may have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Reclamation and mine closure costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Currently in the PRC, mining companies are required to make payments to government entities for reclamation and mine closure costs. The government entities actually perform the reclamation and mine closure work to restore the mine site. Presently, mining companies must pay a sewage charge to the Mongolia Environmental Protection Bureau at a rate of RMB15 per ton of extracted ore, multiplied by 0.94. Mining companies must pay a one-time fee to the State Treasury equal to Rmb15,000 — Rmb75,000/hectare as determined through negotiations with government authorities and based upon the underground areas which have been mined and the nature of the mine. We cannot provide assurance that national or regional governments in the PRC will not increase these charges or create laws or regulations to levy additional charges on mining companies in the future. National or regional governments may also create laws or regulations to require mining companies to perform some or all of the reclamation and closure activities themselves in the future. Future changes to reclamation and mine closure requirements in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Title to some of our exploration and mining rights could be challenged or defective. The acquisition of title to exploration and mining rights in the PRC can be a complex and time-consuming process, and title to such rights may be disputed, challenged or impaired. Third parties may assert valid claims to some of our interests in exploration and mining rights. As a result, we may be impaired in our ability to explore or mine on our properties or unable to enforce its rights with respect to such properties. An impairment to, or defect in, our title to our exploration and mining rights could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are required to obtain government permits in order to conduct mining operations. We must obtain government approvals and permits to operate our mines in the PRC. Further approvals and permits may be required in the future. Our ability to obtain permits from the government of the PRC in a timely manner is contingent upon many factors outside of our control. Obtaining governmental permits may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements by government authorities. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain all necessary permits for our mining operations in the future, and if we obtains them, that the costs involved will not exceed our estimates. To the extent we are unable to obtain or renew required permits, our mining operations may be curtailed, or we may not be able to proceed with planned exploration, development or operation of mineral properties. 16 Table of Contents Increased energy prices or a disruption of energy supply could adversely affect our operations. Mining operations, plant and facilities are intensive users of electricity and carbon-based fuels. Numerous factors beyond our control influence energy prices, including global and regional supply and demand, political and economic conditions and applicable regulatory regimes. The prices of various sources of energy may increase significantly compared to current levels, and such an increase could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A disruption in the transmission of energy to the mine site, the lack of sufficient energy transmission infrastructure or the termination of energy supply contracts could interrupt our energy supply and adversely affect mining operations. An interruption of our energy supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption of transportation services or increased transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could have a material adverse effect on our mining operations. If transportation of our molybdenum and other mineral products becomes unavailable, our ability to market our products would be diminished. Furthermore, increases in our transportation costs relative to those of our competitors could make our mining operations less competitive. Disruption of transportation services or increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our mining business depends on good relations with our employees. Production at our mining operations depends on the efforts of our employees. Changes in labor laws or in our relationships with our employees could result in strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Factors Related to Our Telecommunications Business Through Our Ownership Interest in QXM As we are the majority shareholder of QXM, and thus its results of operation and business constitutes a substantial portion of our results of operation and business, the following risks that specifically affect QXM can have a material impact on our business. Our financial performance is impacted by our ownership stake in the QXM. Our financial performance is currently impacted as a result of our significant ownership interest in the business of QXM. Although QXM is currently attempting to shift its business model, there are no guarantees that such a shift in business model will occur. Further, there are no guarantees that QXM will regain profitability even if such a shift in business model occurs. Accordingly, we are at risk for impairments to our profitability as a result of our ownership in QXM. If QXM cannot keep pace with market changes and produce mobile handsets with new technologies and features in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet its customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of its business will be materially adversely affected. The mobile handset market in China is characterized by changing consumer preferences with respect to style and functionality, increasing demand for new and advanced technologies and features, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving industry standards, intense competition and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. If we cannot keep pace with market changes and produce new mobile handsets in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our customers’ requirements and preferences, the growth and success of our business will be materially adversely affected. From time to time, QXM or its competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technologies that may replace or shorten the life cycles of its products or cause mobile phone users to defer purchasing its existing products. Shorter product cycles may require QXM to invest more in developing and designing new products and to introduce new products more rapidly, which may increase its costs of product 17 Table of Contents development and decrease its margins and profitability. In addition, QXM may not be able to make such additional investments and any additional investments QXM makes in new product development and introductions may not be successful. Even if QXM is able to continually develop and introduce new products, they may not gain market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products will depend on various factors including: • the perceived advantages of our new products over existing competing products; • our ability to attract mobile handset users who are currently using products of our competitors; • product cost relative to performance; and • the level of customer service available to support new products. Market acceptance of QXM’s products can also be affected by the telecommunication services provided by mobile telecommunications operators in China. For example, on May 24, 2008, the MIIT, the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the Ministry of Finance jointly issued an announcement to promote innovation in homegrown telecommunications technology and the restructuring of the operations in the telecommunications industry. In January 2009, the MIIT issued 3G licenses to China Mobile (TD-SCDMA), China Unicom (CDMA2000) and China Telecom (WCDMA). The development of 3G wireless telecommunication services and subsequent new technologies could materially impact the sales of QXM’s existing and future products. In addition, the operation of inexpensive limited mobility telecommunication services or other competitive services, such as personal handyphone system, in China may also have a material adverse effect on the sales of QXM’s mobile handsets. Therefore, commercial acceptance by customers of new products including any 3G mobile handset WXM offers may not occur at the rate or level we expect, and they may not be able to successfully adapt existing products to effectively and economically meet customer demand, thus impairing the return from our investments. In addition, a very small portion of QXM’s mobile handset models represented a disproportionately large percentage of its handset unit sales and revenue in the past several years and these product leaders served as important drivers for its overall growth. However, they may not be able to replicate such “hit” models on a regular basis, if at all, in future periods. If its existing or new products fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, its business and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. They may also be required under applicable accounting standards to recognize a charge for the impairment of assets to the extent its existing products become uncompetitive or obsolete, or if any new products fail to achieve commercial acceptance. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition in the telecommunications industry is intense. QXM’s failure to maintain or improve its market position and respond successfully to changes in the competitive landscape may have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations. The mobile handset manufacturing industry in China is intensely competitive. Industry participants compete with each other mainly on the basis of the breadth and depth of its product portfolios, price, operational and manufacturing efficiency, technical performance, product features, quality, customer support and brand recognition. We are facing significant competition from a number of competitors, including domestic mobile handset producers such as Bird Ningbo Co., Ltd., Konka Group Co., Ltd., Beijing Tianyu Communication Equipment Co. Ltd., Gionee Communication Co., Ltd. and Haier (Qingdao) Telecom Co., Ltd. and a number of large multinational mobile handset producers, such as Apple Inc., Nokia Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications (China) Co. Ltd., and LG Electronics (China) Ltd. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, significantly larger market shares, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater economies of scale and financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors have used, and we expect will continue to use, more aggressive pricing strategies, greater amounts of incentives and subsidies for distributors, retailers and customers, more successful design approaches and more advanced technologies. In addition, some competitors have chosen to focus on building products based on commercially available components, which may enable them to introduce these products faster and with lower levels of research and development spending than QXM. Furthermore, consolidation among the industry participants in 18 Table of Contents China may potentially result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as end-to-end suppliers as well as competitors who are more specialized in particular areas and geographic markets. This could have a material adverse effect on QXM’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. QXM’s operating results significantly depend on our ability to compete in this market environment, in particular on its ability to adapt to political, economic or regulatory changes, to introduce new products to the market and to continuously enhance the functionality while reducing the cost of new and existing products. If they fail to maintain or increase its market share and scale compared to its competitors, its cost advantage may be eroded, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position and our results of operations, particularly our profitability. In addition, QXM also faces competition from unlicensed mobile handset manufacturers in China that make mobile handsets without the requisite governmental approvals and licenses. We believe that these manufacturers are able to keep its production costs low primarily as a result of tax avoidance and non-payment of various fees that are required for all licensed products. Despite recent government action against many of these unlicensed manufacturers, we believe that such mobile handsets still account for a significant portion of all mobile handsets sold in China. If the government is not successful in preventing these unlicensed mobile handset manufacturers from producing and selling its mobile handsets, QXM’s market share and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result of developments in the telecommunications industry, we also expect QXM to face new competition from companies in related industries, such as consumer electronics manufacturers. Additionally, QXM faces increasing competition from mobile telecommunication operators that are increasingly offering mobile devices under its own brands. If QXM cannot respond successfully to these competitive developments, its business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. QXM’s, and in turn, our, sales, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected if QXM fails to manage efficiently its operations without interruption, or fails to ensure that its products meet the expectations of its distributors and its end-user customers and are delivered on time. The operation of QXM’s business requires successful coordination of several sequential and complex manufacturing processes, the disruption of any of which could interrupt its revenue generation and have a material and adverse effect on its relationships with its distributors and end-user customers, the QXM brand name, and its financial performance. QXM’s manufacturing operations involve raw material and component sourcing from third parties, internal assembly processes and distribution processes. These operations are modified on a regular basis in an effort to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiency and flexibility. QXM may experience difficulties in coordinating its supplies of components and raw materials to meet the demand for its products, increasing or decreasing production at its facilities, adopting new manufacturing processes, finding a timely way to develop the best technical solutions for new products, or achieving manufacturing efficiency and flexibility. It may experience delays in adjusting or upgrading production at its facilities when it introduces new models, delays in expanding manufacturing capacity, failure in its manufacturing processes or failure by its business partners to adequately perform the services they have outsourced to them, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on its sales and results of operations. In addition, a failure or an interruption could occur at any stage of the QXM product development, manufacturing and delivery processes, resulting in products not meeting the expectations of its distributors and our customers, or being delivered late, which could have a material adverse effect on QXM’s sales, results of operations and reputation. QXM’s operations could be materially adversely affected if it fails to manage effectively its relationships with, or lose the services of, its third-party manufacturers or other third-party service providers. QXM relies on the manufacturing services provided by third-party manufacturers, including EMS providers, to manufacture a significant portion of its mobile handset products. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, QXM outsourced to third-party EMS providers, 73.7%, 90.2% and 99.4%, respectively, of the total mobile handsets they shipped. Reliance on third-party manufacturers involves a number of risks, including the lack of control over the manufacturing process and the potential absence or unavailability of adequate capacity. If any of QXM’s 19 Table of Contents third-party manufacturers cannot or will not manufacture its products in required volumes on a cost-effective basis, in a timely manner, at a sufficient level of quality, or at all, QXM will need to secure additional manufacturing capacity. Even if this additional capacity is available at commercially acceptable terms, the qualification process could be lengthy and could cause interruptions in product shipments, which may result in a decrease in QXM sales. In many cases, some of QXM’s competitors also utilize the same contract manufacturers, and QXM could be blocked from acquiring the needed components or increasing capacity if its competitors have purchased capacity ahead of QXM. The unexpected loss of any of QXM’s third-party manufacturers could be disruptive to its business. QXM relies on independent mobile handset designers in China for certain software and hardware designs used in its production. If these or other mobile handset designers terminate its business relationships with QXM, or are otherwise unable to provide QXM with designs suitable for its products, or if QXM fails to enhance its in-house research and development activities to compensate for its inability to obtain designs suitable for its products from these handset designers, QXM’s business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. QXM outsources certain software and hardware designs used in producing its products, such as high-end handset main boards, to independent mobile handset designers in China. If these mobile handset designers terminate its business relationships with QXM, or are otherwise unable to provide QXM with designs suitable for its products, or if QXM fails to increase its in-house research and development activities to compensate for its inability to obtain designs suitable for its products from these handset designers, QXM’s business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. QXM’s results of operations, particularly its profitability, may be materially adversely affected if QXM does not successfully manage price erosion and is not able to manage costs related to its products and operations. Price erosion is a characteristic of the mobile handset industry, and the products offered by QXM are also subject to natural price erosion over time. If QXM is not able to lower its costs at the same rate or faster than this price erosion and introduce new cost-efficient products with higher prices in a timely manner, as well as manage costs related to its products and operations generally, it will have a material adverse effect on QXM’s business and results of operations, particularly its profitability. QXM relies primarily on its distributors for marketing its products at the provincial and local levels and for after-sales support of its products. Because QXM has limited influence over its distributors, QXM cannot be certain that its marketing and after-sale support of its products will be adequate or will not harm QXM’s brand and reputation. Moreover, if QXM fails to timely identify additional or replacement distributors upon the loss of one or more of its distributors, or if QXM is unable to successfully manage its distribution network, or if QXM is unable to collect payments from its distributors on a timely basis, its operating results may suffer. Substantially all of QXM’s sales are made to its distributors. As of June 24, 2011, QXM’s distribution network included four national distributors, 38 provincial distributors and three TV direct sales distributors. These distributors resell QXM’s products to end customers in China either directly or through its own distribution networks principally composed of local distributors and retail outlets. QXM grants its distributors the right to use its brand name and logo when they market QXM’s products within their respective sales territories or channels and when they provide after-sales support to QXM’s end-user customers. However, QXM’s contractual arrangements with its distributors do not provide it with control over their everyday business activities, and one or more of its distributors may engage in activities that are prohibited under QXM’s contractual arrangements with them, that violate PRC laws and regulations governing the mobile handset industry or other PRC laws and regulations generally, or that are otherwise harmful to its business or its reputation in the industry. Distributors individually accounting for more than 10% of QXM’s revenues collectively accounted for 65.1%, 86.4% and 77.6% of QXM’s revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Due to QXM’s dependence on distributors for the sale, marketing and after-sales support of its products, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in QXM’s revenue and have a material adverse effect on QXM’s financial condition and results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of QXM’s distributors; 20 Table of Contents • selection by one or more of QXM’s distributors of its competitors’ products; • failure to timely identify additional or replacement distributors upon the loss of one or more of QXM’s distributors; and • failure of any of QXM’s distributors to make timely payment for our products. In addition, QXM relies on its distributors for marketing activities at the provincial and local levels. This approach may not be effective in building brand recognition at provincial and local levels consistent with its national brand-building efforts. QXM also outsources to some of its distributors and other third parties its after-sales support to end-user customers. If QXM’s after-sales service providers fail to provide adequate, satisfactory and effective after-sales support, its brand image may suffer, and its business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. QXM currently enjoys a number of favorable arrangements with some of its distributors, such as exclusive sales relationships, up-front payment by distributors, and settlement by cash or promissory notes guaranteed by banks. However, the competition for distribution channels is intense in the mobile handset industry in China and many of QXM’s competitors are expanding their distribution channels in China. QXM may not be able to compete successfully against the larger and better funded sales and marketing operations of some of its current or potential competitors, especially if these competitors provide more favorable contractual arrangements for distributors. As a result, QXM may lose some of its distribution channels to its competitors, which may cause QXM to lose some or all of its favorable arrangements with these distributors and may even result in the termination of its contractual relationships with some of our distributors. While QXM does not believe it is substantially dependent upon any individual distributor, finding replacement distributors could be time-consuming and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly to QXM’s business. In addition, QXM may not be able to successfully manage its distribution channels and the cost of any consolidation or further expansion may exceed the revenue generated from these efforts. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in a significant decrease in the sales volume of QXM’s products and therefore materially harm its financial condition and results of operations. QXM’s distributors often must make a significant commitment of capital to purchase its products, and QXM provides trade credits to some of its distributors. As a result, any downturn in a distributor’s business that affects the distributor’s ability to pay QXM could harm its financial condition. Historically, QXM has not experienced any significant bad debt or collection problems, but such problems may arise in the future. The failure of any of QXM’s distributors to make timely payments could require QXM to write off accounts receivable or increase provisions made against its accounts receivable, either of which could adversely affect its financial condition. If QXM fails to source a sufficient quantity of high-quality components used in its products at reasonable costs from its suppliers, its competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. QXM’s dependence on suppliers for certain types of components could jeopardize its production activities and increase its cost of sales. QXM does not produce most of the components and raw materials necessary for the production of its mobile handsets and relies on suppliers to provide it with a substantial portion of these components and raw materials. The aggregate costs attributable to QXM’s five largest raw materials and components suppliers in 2008, 2009 and 2010 were 72.5%, 88.3% and 97.4%, respectively. QXM may experience a shortage in the supply of certain components in the future and if any such shortage occurs, its manufacturing capabilities and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If any supplier is unwilling or unable to provide QXM with high quality components and raw materials in required quantities and at acceptable costs, QXM may not be able to find alternative sources on satisfactory terms in a timely manner, or at all. QXM’s inability to find or develop alternative sources if and as required could result in delays or reductions in manufacturing and product shipments. Moreover, these suppliers may delay component or material shipments or supply QXM with inferior quality components or raw materials that may adversely impact the performance of QXM’s mobile handsets. If any of these events occur, QXM’s competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. Some of QXM’s products also incorporate imported components. QXM’s imported electronic components and raw materials are subject to a variety of Chinese governmental permit requirements, approval procedures and 21 Table of Contents import duties, and may also, from time to time, be subject to export controls and other legal restrictions imposed by foreign countries. Should the Chinese government refuse to issue the necessary permits or approvals to QXM or its suppliers, or take any administrative actions to limit imports of certain components, or if QXM or its suppliers fail to pay any required import duties, or if governmental agencies or laws of foreign countries prevent the timely export of certain components QXM requires to China, QXM may become subject to penalties and fines or fail to obtain important components for its mobile handsets, and its ability to manufacture and sell its products in China could be adversely affected. In addition, import duties increase the cost of QXM’s products and may make them less competitive. Some components and materials used in QXM’s products are currently purchased from a single supplier or a small number of suppliers and QXM’s ability to deliver its products according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of components and materials on competitive terms. Failure by any of QXM’s suppliers to meet its needs for components could impact QXM’s production targets, limit QXM’s sales or increase QXM’s costs. While QXM does not believe it is substantially dependent upon any individual supplier, finding alternative suppliers for these components and materials could be costly and time-consuming. Moreover, if QXM fails to anticipate customer demand properly, an over or under supply of components and production capacity could occur. This factor could limit QXM’s ability to supply sufficient products to its customers or could increase its costs. At the same time, QXM may commit to certain capacity levels or component quantities, which, if unused, will result in charges for unused capacity or scrapping costs. QXM maintains inventories of raw materials, components and handsets, and its inventories may become obsolete. The rapid technological change in the telecommunications industry, the short product life cycle of QXM’s handsets, QXM’s limited forecasting experience and processes and the competitive nature of its target markets make forecasting its future sales and operating results difficult. QXM’s expense levels are based, in part, on its expectations regarding future sales. In addition, to enable it to promptly fill orders, QXM maintains inventories of raw materials, components and handsets. As a result, QXM has to commit to considerable costs in advance of anticipated sales. Any significant shortfall of sales may result in its maintaining higher levels of inventories of raw materials, components and finished goods than it requires, thereby increasing its risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs. We cannot guarantee that such write-downs will be adequate to cover all of QXM’s losses resulting from inventory obsolescence. QXM’s past brand-sharing practices may result in negative publicity and may even lead to investigations or penalties by relevant PRC regulatory authorities, which could have a material adverse impact on its reputation and business. Through the first half of 2006, QXM allowed other mobile handset manufacturers to use its GSM licenses to produce mobile handsets and sell these mobile handsets under its brand name. Although QXM exerted a certain degree of control over the manufacturing processes of these mobile handsets, it had almost no control over most other aspects of the production and sale of these handsets, including raw materials purchases. As a result, mobile handsets produced under these arrangements by the other manufacturers may not have the same quality as the products made by QXM and any product quality claims associated with these mobile handsets may result in adverse publicity for us and harm to our reputation in the market, which may result in a decrease in sales of our mobile handsets and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although there are no specific laws and regulations in China governing the brand-sharing practice as described above or similar practices, the MIIT and the State Administration of Industry and Commerce launched certain campaigns in the past aimed at stopping practices they considered inconsistent with acceptable industry practices. Should these relevant regulatory authorities decide that QXM’s past brand-sharing practices were unacceptable or contravened existing laws and regulations in China, QXM may become subject to investigations or penalties. Furthermore, if any new regulation prohibiting brand-sharing is promulgated with retroactive effect, QXM’s past brand-sharing practice may be subject to investigation based upon such new regulation, which may result in penalties and may have an adverse effect on us. 22 Table of Contents QXM must develop or otherwise acquire complex, evolving technologies to use in its business and meet market demand. QXM’s failure to develop or otherwise acquire these complex technologies, or to successfully commercialize such technologies as new advanced products that meet customer demand on a timely basis, will have a material adverse effect on QXM’s business, our ability to meet its targets and its results of operations. To succeed in the telecommunications markets and meet market demand, QXM must develop or otherwise acquire complex, evolving technologies to use in its business. However, the development and use of new technologies, applications and technology platforms for its mobile handsets involves the commitment of significant amounts of its management’s time, substantial costs and risks both within and outside of its control. This is true whether QXM develops these technologies internally, acquires or invests in other companies with these technologies or collaborates with third parties on the development of these technologies. The technologies, functionalities and features on which QXM chooses to focus may not achieve as broad or timely customer acceptance as it expects. This may result from numerous factors, including the availability of more attractive alternatives or a lack of sufficient compatibility with other existing technologies, products and solutions. Additionally, even if QXM does select the technologies, functionalities and features that customers ultimately want, QXM or the companies that it works with may not be able to bring them to the market in a timely manner. QXM may also face difficulties obtaining and providing the technologies preferred by its potential customers, or at prices acceptable to them. In addition, QXM’s products include increasingly complex technologies developed or licensed to it by third parties. QXM may not be able to obtain or maintain necessary or desirable licenses or permits from third parties, with full rights needed to use them in its business, on commercially acceptable terms at such times as it may seek to use them. QXM relies on a number of technologies licensed from third parties and the loss of some or all of these licenses or failure to renew them on a timely basis could interrupt its production and have a material adverse impact on its business. QXM relies on a number of technologies licensed from third parties for manufacturing our mobile handsets. For example, it relies on Access China Inc. for certain software supporting wireless application protocol and multimedia messaging service functions. If some or all of such licenses are terminated, or if it fails to renew certain licenses on a timely basis or fails to find alternative suppliers, its production of mobile handsets would be disrupted and its business and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. QXM has not applied for patents or registered copyrights for most of its intellectual property and its failure to adequately protect its intellectual property rights may undermine its competitive position, and litigation to protect its intellectual property rights may be costly. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. QXM relies primarily on trade secrets and other contractual restrictions to protect its intellectual property. QXM has not applied for patents or registered copyrights in China for most of its inventions, original works of authorship, developments and improvements relating to the mobile handsets it produces. The actions QXM has taken to protect its intellectual property rights may not be adequate to provide it with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. As a result, third parties may use the technologies that QXM has developed and compete with QXM, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce QXM’s intellectual property rights and the outcome of any such litigation may not be in QXM’s favor. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties in enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee that QXM would be able to halt the unauthorized use of its intellectual property through litigation in a timely manner. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from QXM business and cause QXM to expend significant resources. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair QXM’s intellectual property rights and 23 Table of Contents may harm QXM’s business, prospects and reputation. In addition, QXM has no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent it is unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on QXM’s business, financial condition and results of operations. QXM may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely against it, could disrupt QXM’s business and subject it to significant liability to third parties, as well as have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. QXM’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to use and develop its technology, know-how and product designs without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. QXM’s products include increasingly complex technology and, as the amount of such technologies and the number of parties claiming rights continue to increase, the possibility of alleged infringement and related intellectual property claims against QXM continues to rise. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to QXM’s product offerings may be unknown to it, or may otherwise make it difficult for QXM to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by QXM that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by others which could damage its ability to rely on such technologies. In addition, although QXM endeavors to ensure that companies that work with it possess appropriate intellectual property rights or licenses, QXM cannot fully avoid the risks of intellectual property rights infringement created by suppliers of components used in its products or by companies with which QXM works in cooperative research and development activities. Since all technology standards, including those used and relied on by QXM, include some intellectual property rights, QXM cannot fully avoid risks of a claim for infringement of such rights due to its reliance on such standards. QXM believes that the number of third parties declaring their intellectual property to be relevant to these standards, for example, those standards related to 3G mobile communication technologies as well as other advanced mobile communications standards, is increasing, which may increase the likelihood that QXM will be subject to such claims in its future. As QXM continues to market and sell its products throughout China, and as litigation becomes more common in China, QXM faces a higher risk of becoming subject to claims for intellectual property infringement. While QXM has not, to date, become subject to these types of claims, it is possible that it may, in the future, become subject to such intellectual property infringement claims. Regardless of whether such claims have merit or are decided in its favor, any such litigation could have a negative impact on its brand, reputation and ability to conduct its business and sell some or all of its products. QXM’s current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with QXM’s ability to make, use or sell its products in China or other countries. The validity and scope of claims relating to these patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. In addition, the defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of QXM’s technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which QXM may become a party could cause it to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay additional ongoing royalties, which could decrease its profit margins; • redesign its products; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent QXM from pursuing some or all of its business and result in its customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of its products, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents It may become more difficult to maintain QXM’s quality standards, and problems with product quality or product performance could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Product liability claims against QXM could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. QXM’s operating results depend, in part, on its ability to deliver quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis. In the past, QXM’s experienced manufacturing defects as a result of various factors, including defects in component parts and human error in assembly. As mobile handset products become technologically more complex, it may become more difficult to maintain quality standards. If QXM experiences deterioration in the performance or quality of any of its products, it could result in delays in shipments, cancellations of orders or customer returns and complaints, loss of goodwill, and harm to QXM’s brand and reputation. Furthermore, as a result of ongoing technological developments, QXM’s products are increasingly used together with hardware or software components that have been developed by third parties and when a problem occurs, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. In addition, some components, such as batteries or software applications, may not be fully compatible with QXM’s products and may not meet QXM’s and QXM’s customers’ quality, safety, security or other standards. The use by customers of QXM products with incompatible or otherwise substandard hardware or software components, while largely outside of QXM’s control, could result in malfunctions or defects in QXM handsets and result in harm to the QXM brand. These problems may lead to a decrease in customers and revenue, harm to the QXM brand, unexpected expenses, loss of market share, the incurrence of significant warranty and repair costs, diversion of the attention of QXM’s engineering personnel from its product development efforts, customer relation problems or loss of customers, any one of which could materially adversely affect QXM’s business. In addition, QXM contracts with third parties, such as EMS providers, to use their manufacturing facilities to produce its mobile handsets. QXM may be unable to exercise the same degree of quality control over these manufacturing facilities as it can over its own facilities. Any product quality problems associated with the products produced by these third parties may also lead to adverse publicity against QXM, affect QXM’s reputation and cause a decrease in sales of QXM mobile handsets. As with other mobile handset producers, QXM is also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the use of the mobile handsets it sells results in injury, death or damage to property. We cannot predict at this time whether product liability claims will be brought against QXM in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on QXM’s business. QXM does not have product liability insurance and has not made provisions for potential product liability claims. Therefore, QXM may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against it. Moreover, the successful assertion of product liability claims against QXM could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require QXM to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. Even if a product liability claim is not successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, QXM may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim. QXM’s sales and profitability depend on the continued growth of the mobile telecommunications industry, especially in China, and if the mobile telecommunications industry does not grow as it expects or grows at a slower speed than it expects, QXM’s sales and profitability may be materially adversely affected. QXM derives substantially all of its revenues from sales of mobile handsets in China. The continued development of its business depends, in large part, on continued growth in the mobile telecommunications industry, especially in China, in terms of the number of existing mobile subscribers who upgrade or replace their existing mobile handsets, the number of new subscribers and increased usage. Although China’s wireless telecommunication industry has grown rapidly in the past, it may not continue to grow at the same growth rate in the future or at all. Furthermore, QXM’s sales and profitability are also affected by the extent to which there is increasing demand for, and development of, value-added services, leading to opportunities for QXM to successfully market mobile handsets that feature those services. To a certain extent, QXM is dependent on third-party mobile telecommunication operators to successfully introduce these value-added services that encourage end users to upgrade or replace their mobile handsets. For instance, mobile telecommunication operators in China have 25 Table of Contents upgraded their networks to offer 3G wireless telecommunication services, which QXM believes will lead to increased demand for enhanced wireless value-added services and, therefore, increased demand for mobile handsets with more advanced technologies in China. Therefore, if mobile telecommunication operators are not successful in their attempts to introduce new services, increase the number of subscribers, stimulate increased usage and drive replacement sales, QXM’s business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. These developments in the telecommunications industry are, to a large extent, outside of QXM’s control and any reduced demand for wireless voice and data services, any other downturn or other adverse changes in China’s wireless telecommunication industry could severely harm QXM’s business. Changes in the regulatory environment for telecommunications systems and services, especially in China, could negatively impact QXM’s business. The telecommunications industry in China is heavily regulated and regulatory changes may affect both QXM and its customers. For example, changes in regulations that impose more stringent standards for the production of mobile handsets could adversely affect QXM’s business. Similarly, tariff regulations that affect the pricing of new services offered by mobile telecommunication operators could also affect their ability to invest in network infrastructure, which in turn could affect the sales of QXM’s mobile handsets. License fees, environmental, health and safety, privacy and other regulatory changes may increase costs and restrict operations of mobile telecommunication network operators and service providers. The indirect impact of such changes could affect QXM’s business adversely even though the specific regulations may not directly apply to its products or QXM directly. MIIT has broad discretion and authority to regulate all aspects of the telecommunication and information technology industry in China, including managing spectrum bandwidths, setting mobile handset specifications and standards, approving the adoption of new technologies such as 3G, and drafting laws and regulations related to the electronics and telecommunication industries. MIIT also determines the forms and types of services that may be offered by telecommunication companies to the public, the rates that are charged to subscribers for those services and the content of material available in China over wireless services, including Internet content. In addition, China’s telecommunication regulatory framework is still at a relatively early stage of development, and prone to directional shifts and major structural changes. The PRC government is in the process of drafting a national telecommunication law, which may include new legislation governing the mobile handset industry. If MIIT sets standards with which our company is unable to comply or which would render our products uncompetitive, our ability to sell products could be severely limited, resulting in substantial harm to our operations. 