Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, could hurt the Company’s business materially. The Company’s business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond its control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, and surrounding areas, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt the Company’s business materially: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for its products and services may decline; • low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Company’s existing loans. A large percentage of the Company’s loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect its profitability. A majority of the Company’s loan portfolio is comprised of loans at least partially collateralized by real estate; a substantial portion of this real estate collateral is located in the Chicago market. An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in the Chicago market specifically could significantly impair the value of the Company’s collateral and its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, the Company’s profitability could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings. The majority of the Company’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, the Company’s earnings and profitability depend significantly on its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-earning assets, or vice versa. However, the actual effect of changing interest rates on the Company’s earnings may vary due to the speed and magnitude of the changes, the degree to which short-term and long-term rates are similarly affected, and other factors. The Company’s asset-liability management strategy may not be able to control its risk from changes in market interest rates, and it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company is unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: • inflation; • recession; 22 Table of Contents • changes in unemployment; • the money supply; and • international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in interest rates may also adversely affect the growth rate of the Company’s loans and deposits, the quality of its loan portfolio, loan and deposit pricing, the volume of loan originations in its mortgage banking business and the value that it can recognize on the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary market. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, including losses associated with the Large Problem Credit, which could adversely affect its results of operations or its financial condition. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, which are based in part on: • current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; • an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance; • results of examinations of our loan portfolios by regulatory agencies; and • management’s internal review of the loan portfolio. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover probable incurred loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced historically. In determining the amount of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of the Company’s loan portfolio, experience, and evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions and analysis prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient. In addition, adjustments may be necessary to allow for unexpected volatility or deterioration in the local or national economy or other factors such as changes in interest rates that may be beyond its control. Large additions to the allowance could materially decrease the Company’s net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review its allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the Company’s loan allowance or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. In particular, the Company has outstanding loans to one borrower and his related entities, referred to as the Large Problem Credit, which accounted for 59.0% of its nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, the remaining total loan exposure related to the Large Problem Credit was $29.0 million, all of which is currently classified as nonaccrual. The Company recorded a $5.0 million provision for loan losses relating to the Large Problem Credit in the second quarter of 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded an additional $5.5 million provision and charged off $7.5 million of the principal balance to reflect the deterioration of the Large Problem Credit. In the third quarter of 2007, the borrower’s corporate entities filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Company continues the process of pursuing the collection of the Large Problem Credit and the liquidation of its collateral. Although the Company has not recognized any charge-offs relating to this credit during 2007 and management currently believes that the carrying value of these loans at December 31, 2007 reflects management’s best estimate of net realizable value, there can be no assurance that additional losses will not be recognized or that such additional losses would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Future impairment losses could be required on the Federal National Mortgage Association, FNMA, and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, FHLMC, preferred equity securities that the Company owns. As of December 31, 2007, FNMA and FHLMC preferred equity securities represented $85.1 million or 11.0% of the total amortized cost of the Company’s portfolio of investment securities and $66.0 million or 8.8% of the fair value of the Company’s portfolio of investment securities. Since September 30, 2007, FNMA and FHLMC have announced significant losses related to their respective business activities which are primarily mortgage related. These announcements have had a significant adverse impact on the fair value of the preferred equity securities of FNMA and FHLMC that the Company owns. Notwithstanding the announcements, Moody’s Investors Services and Standard and Poors have maintained their ratings on the preferred equity securities issued by FNMA and FHLMC, including the securities that the Company owns. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the rating agencies will continue to maintain their current ratings on the preferred equity securities that it owns. Both of these government-sponsored entities raised substantial new equity capital through the issuance of additional preferred stock in late 2007, which the Company believes shows investors’ confidence in the issuers’ strength, long-term viability and ability to fund dividends. Despite the period of time these securities have been impaired and the magnitude of the decline in value, the Company believes it is too soon as of December 31, 2007 to conclude that the unrealized losses are other-than-temporary in nature and further believes as of December 31, 2007 that the market fluctuations that precipitated the steep drop in values in late 2007 will reverse over time. As of December 31, 2007, the difference between the estimated fair value and amortized cost of the FNMA and FHLMC preferred equity securities was $19.2 million, representing an $11.8 million loss net of tax, which was included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a reduction in stockholders’ equity on the Company’s balance sheet. The Company has not recognized this difference as a charge against net income due to its determination at December 31, 2007, that the unrealized losses in the preferred equity securities did not constitute other-than-temporary impairments. Management does not believe that any individual unrealized loss as of December 31, 2007 represents other-than-temporary impairment at that date. These unrealized losses are primarily attributable to changes in interest rates as well as turbulent economic conditions impacting the credit markets in the second half of 2007. If the Company determines in one or more future reporting periods that any difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of a FNMA or FHLMC preferred equity security that it owns is an other-than-temporary impairment, it would be required to record an impairment loss against its income in an amount equal to such difference. If the market values of the Company’s FNMA and FHLMC preferred equity investment securities do not demonstrate a clear pattern of substantial recovery in the near future, the Company would be required to recognize impairment losses. The Company establishes fair value estimates of securities available-for-sale in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s estimates can change from reporting period to reporting period and it cannot provide any assurance that the fair value estimates of the FNMA and FHLMC preferred equity securities would be the realizable value in the event of a sale of the securities. A number of factors could cause the Company to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that any difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of one or more of the FNMA and FHLMC preferred equity securities that it owns constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment. These factors include, but are not limited to, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the length of time unrealized losses continue without an improvement in value, a change in the Company’s intent or ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the forecasted recovery, or changes in market conditions or industry or issuer specific factors that would render it unable to forecast a full recovery in value, including adverse developments concerning the financial condition of FNMA or FHLMC. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state tax laws. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal or state tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations. In this regard, recent changes in Illinois laws may adversely affect our results of operations. Under current tax law, the Company enjoys favorable tax treatment with respect to the 24 Table of Contents dividends we receive from Midwest Funding, L.L.C., a captive real estate investment trust, or a REIT. A recent change in Illinois tax law relating to the deductibility of captive REIT dividends will eliminate this tax benefit beginning January 1, 2009, and is likely to increase our effective tax rate beginning in that year. In addition, in connection with the determination of the Company’s provision for income and other taxes and during the preparation of its tax returns, management makes certain judgments based upon reasonable interpretations of tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations which are inherently complex. Management’s interpretations are subject to challenge upon audit by the tax authorities, which have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, including certain positions that it has taken. If the Company is not successful in defending the tax positions that it has taken, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company may not be able to successfully implement its growth strategy and may encounter difficulties or unexpected developments in connection with the integration of its acquisitions. The Company has expanded its business in part through acquisitions and selective branching and cannot provide any assurances that profitable expansion opportunities will be available in the future. Because management believes that the Chicago market is saturated, its preferred strategy for continued growth is to expand its branch network through acquisitions. Accordingly, the Company plans to continue to pursue potential acquisitions of other community banks. In addition, it will also consider opportunities to acquire money managers, specialty lenders and related financial services businesses in order to diversify the Company’s business. The Company expects that competition for acquisition candidates will continue to be significant. The Company competes with other financial institutions and financial services companies with similar acquisition strategies, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than the Company does. The Company cannot provide assurances that it will be able to successfully identify and acquire suitable acquisition targets on acceptable terms. If the Company is successful in making acquisitions, acquiring other banks, branches, and other financial services businesses involves various significant risks, including the following: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities or asset quality issues of the target company; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • potential disruption to our business, including diversion of management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and • potential changes in the laws and regulations that affect the business of the target company. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values; therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue enhancements, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s continued pace of growth may require it to increase its regulatory capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations and its anticipated growth. To the extent the Company continues to expand its operations, the Company will be required to support the growth in its operations by increasing its capital. The Company’s ability to raise capital will depend on its financial performance as well as conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth. These restrictions could negatively impact the Company’s ability to further expand its operations and may result in significant increases in its operating expenses or decreases in its revenues. 25 Table of Contents An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing, or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions or breach in security could result in a loss of customer business, costly remedial actions, or legal liabilities and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s ability to pay dividends and make payment on its debt securities and on its outstanding debt is dependent on the earnings of its subsidiaries and is subject to other restrictions. Most of the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make payments on its debt securities come from amounts paid to it by the Bank. Under applicable banking law, the total dividends declared in any calendar year by a the Bank may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve, or the FDIC, as the case may be, exceed the aggregate of the Bank’s net profits and retained net profits for the preceding two years. The Bank is also subject to limits on dividends under the Illinois Banking Act. If, in the opinion of the federal bank regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the depository institution, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require that the bank cease and desist from the practice. The Federal Reserve has similar authority with respect to bank holding companies. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Finally, these regulatory authorities have established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by a bank, bank holding company or savings association under their jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in these guidelines could limit the amount of dividends that the Company and its affiliates may pay in the future. Under the terms of junior subordinated debentures the Company has issued, it has agreed not to declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of its common stock or preferred stock if, at that time, there is a default under the junior subordinated debentures or a related guarantee or it has delayed interest payments on the securities issued under the junior indenture. The Company also has dividend limitations under its revolving line of credit agreement and term loan agreement. The Company’s outstanding preferred stock has preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of the Company’s assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which it operates. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines, are increasing the Company’s costs of doing business and, as a result, may create an advantage for its competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. In addition, future regulatory changes, including changes to regulatory capital requirements, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future results. In addition, the federal and state bank regulatory authorities who supervise the Company have broad discretionary powers to take enforcement actions against banks for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, it could become subject to enforcement actions that have a material adverse effect on its future results. 26 Table of Contents Provisions in the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company by a third party. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire the Company without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of the Company’s governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that some or many of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 