ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the shares of Citizens South Banking Corporation common stock. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, a decrease in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. Based on results generated by its interest rate risk model, an immediate and sustained decrease of 300 basis points throughout the yield curve would decrease its annual net interest income by 2.1% for the period ended December 31, 2007. The assumptions used in the model do not provide for actions that may be taken by management during the period to offset the effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income. We are also subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. 6 Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s interest-earning assets, and in particular its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $116.4 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $343,000 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. A slowdown in our local economy could impair the ability of our customers to repay their loans. We have added a significant number of loans over the past five years from new relationships as we have entered new markets through acquisitions and de novo offices. As a result, our loan portfolio may not be as seasoned as the loan portfolios of our competitors in some of these new markets. Should local real estate markets or economies weaken, we may begin to experience higher default rates resulting in increased levels of non-performing loans, which would likely result in higher loan losses and reduced earnings. The Company’s commercial real estate loan portfolio exposes the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2007, Citizens South Banking Corporation’s portfolio of commercial real estate, multifamily, and construction loans totaled $365.4 million, or 65.26% of total gross loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. We face numerous competitors in both our community banking and mortgage banking operations in our primary market area which is the Charlotte, North Carolina metropolitan area. We compete for loan and deposit growth with large banks that have either a regional or a national presence, other community banks, de novo financial institutions, thrifts or savings institutions, credit unions, brokerage and insurance firms, and other nonbank businesses, such as retailers that engage in consumer financing activities. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to continue to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, then our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of allowance for loan losses, we review our loan loss and delinquency experience, we evaluate current local economic conditions, and we analyze the collateral position of our loan portfolio. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in increases to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. Citizens South Banking Corporation and its subsidiaries are highly regulated. Our holding company is regulated by the OTS and the SEC. Our community banking subsidiary is also regulated by the OTS. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations or legislation, may have a material impact on the Company’s operations. In addition to the risks of noncompliance, we are required to dedicate considerable time and monetary resources in our efforts to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that govern the ways in which we conduct our community banking and mortgage banking activities. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Citizens South Banking Corporation without the consent of its Board of Directors. As a Citizens South Banking Corporation stockholder, you may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then-prevailing price of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Citizens South Banking Corporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove Citizens South Banking Corporation’s current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of its common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition plan shares. Citizens South Banking Corporation has entered into employment agreements and change of control agreements with certain executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation or Citizens South Bank. Citizens South Banking Corporation also has adopted plans to permit additional issuances of stock options and recognition plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. These payments will have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring Citizens South Banking Corporation, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s stock-based benefit plans may dilute your ownership interest. Citizens South Banking Corporation has adopted stock option plans and recognition and retention plans. These stock-based benefit plans can be funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock or through open market purchases by the Company. The Company currently is repurchasing shares of its common stock in a Board-authorized share repurchase program. Stockholders will experience a reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares, instead of repurchased shares, are used to fund stock option exercises and stock awards. 8 ITEM 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 