Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below, and you should take such risks into account in evaluating us or any investment decision involving the Company. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to us, our industry or our business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. Risks Related to the Merger Agreement The failure of the Acquisition to close could have material adverse consequences for the Company. The Company has focused a great deal of internal resources on the strategic review process and the review of strategic initiatives that culminated in the execution of the Merger Agreement and will continue to focus resources on the consummation of the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement contains many conditions to its consummation as summarized under Item 1, “Business.” Should the Acquisition fail to close for any reason and the Company be unable to promptly pursue other strategic alternatives, the Company could be left in a materially weaker position than it might have been if it never commenced the processes that led to the execution of the Merger Agreement, including as a result of employee departures in anticipation of the Acquisition. In addition, if the Acquisition does not close, prior to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company expects that it would need to obtain a waiver or amendment of certain covenants in its Term Loan Facility, which, if not attainable upon reasonably satisfactory terms, could have adverse effects on the Company in fiscal 2008 as described below under “Risks Related to Our Financial Condition — Our failure to Comply with the covenants contained in our Debt Agreements could have a material effect on us.” In addition, if the Acquisition is not completed, the price of the Company’s common stock may decline, as the market price of the Company’s common stock increased significantly upon the announcement of the Acquisition. Risks Related to Our Internal Controls We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by SOX 404, management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of February 3, 2008. For a detailed description of our material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” Our material weaknesses result in more than a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our 17 Table of Contents financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the material weaknesses identified, including the significant turnover of Finance organization personnel and use of consultants to augment the Company’s accounting staff, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected timely, which could result in a material misstatement of our published financial statements. In addition, it is possible that other material weaknesses may be identified. Although we have remediated several material weaknesses previously identified, we have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses and other deficiencies we have determined exist at February 3, 2008. We are in the process of implementing a full work plan for remedying the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal 2008. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation will be completed. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. There will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, that a default under our debt agreements could occur as a result of delays and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. The continuing existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and the frequency of our restatements of our financial statements may make it more difficult and expensive to refinance our capital structure. In 2006 we entered into a Term Loan Facility. Should we desire to refinance our Term Loan Facility or to otherwise issue securities, the continued existence of our material weaknesses and the fact that we have restated our financial statements twice in the last three years may make it more difficult for us to do so and may increase the cost of doing so. Both the continued exposure to floating rate interest rates through the Term Loan Facility and our Senior Credit Facility and the increased costs associated with any refinancing of the Term Credit Facility could have negative impacts on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Fiscal 2006 Audit Committee-led Investigation and Prior Restatement of Historical Financial Statements Pending and future governmental inquiries may adversely affect us, the trading prices of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. Our fiscal 2006 Audit Committee-led investigation and the related restatement of historical financial statements is summarized under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Other Significant Events.” During the course of our Audit Committee-led investigation conducted in fiscal 2006 and following its substantial completion, representatives of the Audit Committee and its advisors shared with the SEC the conclusions of such investigation. The Company continues to share information with the SEC and believes it is cooperating fully with the agency in its formal investigation. In addition, certain of our former and current executive officers, directors and other employees are or may be subject to investigation by the SEC in connection with these matters. During fiscal 2007, the U.S. Attorney’s office in Phoenix and the Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. indicated that they have opened an investigation related to historical accounting practices that were the subject of the Audit Committee-led investigation. Adverse developments in connection with these proceedings, including any expansion of their scope or a referral to and investigation by other governmental agencies, could negatively impact us and divert our resources and the focus of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In addition, we have incurred and we may continue to incur significant expenses associated with responding to these investigations (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be subject to such investigation(s)), and we may be required to pay criminal or civil fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. It is also possible that the existence, findings and outcome of these inquiries may have a negative impact on lawsuits that are pending or may be filed against us, the trading prices of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. 18 Table of Contents We have been named as a defendant in a class action lawsuit that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our former executive officers and current and former directors are defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit. Our management’s attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by this lawsuit and we have incurred and we may continue to incur significant expenses associated with the defense of this lawsuit (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify officers and directors who may be parties to such actions). In addition, as a result of this lawsuit, we may be required to pay a judgment or settlement that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and our ability to meet our debt obligations. We recently entered into an agreement in principle to settle this class action lawsuit. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings and the agreement in principle. Potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance could adversely affect us. As discussed above and in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” several of our current and former directors, officers and employees are or may become the subject of criminal, administrative and civil investigations and lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our charter documents and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify and are currently incurring expenses on the behalf of our current and former officers and employees and directors in relation to these matters. Some of these indemnification obligations may not be covered by our directors’ and officers’ insurance policies. If the Company incurs significant uninsured indemnity obligations in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to our Industry and Business Our industry is highly competitive and we may not have the resources to compete effectively. The retail sale of automotive parts and accessories is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have more financial resources, are more geographically diverse, or have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce their prices, we may reduce our prices to maintain a competitive position, which could cause a material decline in our revenues and earnings and hinder our ability to service our debt. We compete primarily with the following types of businesses: • national and regional retail automotive parts chains; • wholesalers or jobber stores (including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, such as NAPA and CARQUEST); • automobile dealers; and • mass merchandisers and discounters that carry automotive replacement parts, maintenance items and accessories. We may not be able to grow our number of stores in a profitable manner or achieve the synergies anticipated when acquisitions are made. Our store growth is based, in part, on expanding selected stores, relocating existing stores, adding new stores primarily in markets we currently serve, and, from time to time, acquiring stores in our existing and new markets from other automotive parts and accessories retailers. Our successful future organic growth and growth through acquisitions are dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to: • locate and obtain acceptable store sites; 19 Table of Contents • negotiate favorable lease terms; • complete the construction of new and relocated stores in a timely manner; • hire, train and retain competent managers and associates; • integrate new and acquired stores into our systems and operations; and • achieve the anticipated synergies and operating results that are often built into the purchase price when existing stores or chains are acquired. Acquisitions involve a variety of risks. Failure to successfully integrate a large number of acquired stores into our existing business or failure to achieve anticipated synergies and operating results from such acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, particularly during the periods closely following the acquisition of such stores. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to open new stores as we have in the past or that our opening of new stores in markets we already serve will not adversely affect existing store profitability, nor can we assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. A decrease in vehicle miles driven, higher gasoline prices and mild summer or winter temperatures may negatively affect our revenues. The need to purchase or replace auto parts is affected by the number of vehicle miles driven. A substantial decrease in the number of vehicle miles driven could have a negative impact on our revenues. Factors that may cause the number of vehicle miles to decrease include: • weather conditions; • increases in gasoline prices; • changes in the economy; and • changes in travel patterns. Increases in gasoline prices, as we experienced during fiscal 2007 and 2006, may also adversely affect our revenues because our customers may defer purchases of certain items as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay for gasoline. While we generally experience increased sales when temperatures are extreme, mild summer or winter temperatures may adversely affect our revenues. These factors could result in a decline in the customer traffic at our stores, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A decrease in the demand for products we offer for sale could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Overall demand for products we sell depends on many factors and may decline for a number of reasons, including: • Improving or declining economic conditions — During periods of declining economic conditions, both DIY and DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. During periods of good economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own cars or consumers may opt to purchase new vehicles rather than service the vehicles they currently own. • Declining vehicle ages and numbers and improving parts quality — A decline in the average age of vehicles, in the number of cars on the road or the continued increase in the quality of auto parts could result in a reduction in the demand for our product offerings. If any of these factors cause overall demand for the products we sell to decline, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents A decrease in the ability and willingness of our suppliers to supply products to us on favorable terms may have a negative impact on our business. Our business depends on developing and maintaining productive relationships with our vendors and upon their ability and willingness to sell products to us on favorable price and other terms. Many factors outside our control may harm these relationships and the ability or willingness of these vendors to sell these products on such terms. For example, financial difficulties that some of our vendors may face may increase the cost of the products we purchase from them. In addition, our failure to pay promptly or order sufficient quantities of inventory from our vendors may increase the cost of products we purchase from them or may lead to their refusal to sell products to us at all. The trend towards consolidation among automotive parts suppliers may disrupt our relationship with some vendors. Any disruption in our vendor relationships or in our vendor operations, including those that could arise as a result of the Acquisition or because of concern about our compliance with the covenants contained in our credit facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We receive various payments, allowances, and discounts from our vendors based on, among other things, the volume of our product purchases or the services that we provide to them. These vendor discounts and allowances reduce our costs of sales when the corresponding product is sold. Monies received from the vendors include rebates, allowances, and promotional funds. Typically, these funds are dependent on purchase volumes and advertising plans. The amounts to be received are subject to changes in market conditions, vendor marketing strategies, and changes in the profitability or sell-through of the related merchandise. Any material change in, or failure to obtain vendor allowances and discounts, such as might result from our failure to sell a sufficient quantity of the vendor’s products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are concentrated in the Western United States, and therefore our business is subject to fluctuations when adverse conditions occur in that region. The overwhelming majority of our stores are located in the Western United States. As a result of this geographic concentration, we are subject to regional risks such as the economy, weather conditions, power outages, cost of electricity, earthquakes and other natural disasters. In recent years, certain areas in which we operate have experienced economic recessions and extreme weather conditions. Although temperature extremes tend to enhance sales by causing a higher incidence of parts failure and increasing sales of seasonal products, unusually severe weather can reduce sales by causing deferral of elective maintenance. Because our business is somewhat seasonal, inclement weather occurring during traditionally peak selling months may harm our business. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and, therefore, may not be as sensitive to such regional risks. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may have a negative impact on our results of operations by making it more difficult to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. In fiscal 2007, we imported approximately 6% of our merchandise directly from other countries, primarily China. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. To help protect ourselves against difficulties of bringing imported goods into the United States, we have participated in the CBP worldwide supply chain security initiative and have achieved a C-TPAT member status with the CBP. Among other benefits to C-TPAT members, our imported containers have experienced reduced border wait time, compared to the containers belonging to importers that have not voluntarily participated in this CBP partnership program. If we are unable to maintain our current C-TPAT status it would increase the time it takes to get products into our stores. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores, which could result in a diminished ability to meet our customer demand. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively affect the economy and may also cause the number of vehicle miles to decrease, the price of gasoline to increase and elective maintenance to be deferred. 21 Table of Contents Because we are involved in litigation from time to time, and are subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs. We currently and from time to time face complaints or litigation incidental to the conduct of our business, including asbestos and similar product liability claims, slips and falls, and other general liability claims, discrimination and employment claims, vendor disputes, and miscellaneous environmental and real estate claims. In some cases, the damages claimed against us are substantial. We accrue reserves using our best estimate of the probable and reasonably estimable contingent liabilities. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims greatly exceed our coverage limits or our insurance policies do not cover a claim, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are also currently subject to a securities class action lawsuit that is not incidental to our business and is described in greater detail below. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report. In addition, we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local governmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things, taxation, employment, environmental protection, and building and zoning requirements. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance with these laws could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to various federal, state, and local laws and governmental regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, the recycling of batteries and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property. As a result of investigations undertaken in connection with certain of our store acquisitions, we are aware that soil or groundwater may be contaminated at some of our properties. There can be no assurance that any such contamination will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as part of our operations, we handle hazardous materials and our customers may also bring hazardous materials onto our properties in connection with, for example, our oil recycling program. There can be no assurance that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. See “Environmental Matters” in Item 1, “Business” in this Annual Report. Risks Related to our Financial Condition We are highly leveraged and, in fiscal 2007, we had higher annual interest costs than we had in fiscal 2006. As of February 3, 2008, we had an aggregate of approximately $487 million of outstanding indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facility, our Term Loan Facility and the indenture under which $100.0 million of our 63/4% Notes were issued (collectively, the “Debt Agreements”). Our substantial debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including those set forth below. Our substantial debt and increased interest payment obligations could adversely affect our financial health, undermine our ability to grow and operate profitably and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Debt Agreements. The degree to which we are leveraged and the increased interest rates resulting from the refinancing of most of our indebtedness in fiscal 2006 and the amendments to our Term Loan Facility in fiscal 2007 could subject us to the following risks: • it may be more difficult to meet our payment and other obligations; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; 22 Table of Contents • the majority of our indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility, carries variable rates of interest, and our interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase; • we are substantially more leveraged than some of our competitors, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors who have lower debt service obligations and significantly greater operating and financial flexibility than we do; • we may not be able to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; • we may be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants governing our other Debt Agreements, which, among other things, require us to maintain certain financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or our prospects. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the heading “Factors Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt Covenants;” and • a credit rating downgrade may increase the cost of refinancing our existing debt or obtaining additional financing in the future. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our Debt Agreements could have a material effect on us. Our credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Failure to comply with these ratios or other financial or restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable credit facility, which could result in a default or acceleration of all of our other indebtedness, which acceleration, if it occurs, would have a material adverse effect on us. In particular, our Term Loan Facility contains a maximum leverage ratio with which we do not expect to be able to comply beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2009. In addition to having the potential to cause a default under the Term Loan Facility at the end of the first quarter of 2009, if we fail to obtain a waiver for amendment of that covenant prior to the completion of our financial statements for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, our belief that it is probable that this covenant will not be satisfied for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 will require us to classify substantially all of our indebtedness as current liabilities at May 4, 2008 (the end of the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2008). The classification of all such indebtedness as current liabilities (i.e., due within twelve months) will not cause a default under our borrowing agreements. However, such reclassification could have adverse consequences upon our relationships with and the credit terms upon which we do business with our vendors although we expect such consequences, if any, to be limited due to the expected closing of the Exchange Offer in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. Furthermore, beginning with the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we would be required to reduce (to twelve months) the time period over which we amortize debt issuance costs and debt discount relating to reclassified indebtedness, increasing the interest costs we report in our financial statements. Our Debt Agreements restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into some operating and financing arrangements, which may limit our ability to operate our business. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in certain of our Debt Agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and require us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions may also have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by significantly limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions, including: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; • making investments; • creating liens on our assets; 23 Table of Contents • transferring or selling assets currently held by us; • paying dividends; • engaging in mergers, consolidations, or acquisitions; or • engaging in other business activities. These restrictions could place us at a disadvantage relative to competitors that are not subject to such limitations. In addition, a breach of the covenants, ratios, or restrictions contained in our Debt Agreements could result in an event of default thereunder. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the lenders under all of our Debt Agreements, or, in the case of the 63/4% Notes, the holders of such 63/4% Notes, could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If our lenders or the holders of the 63/4% Notes accelerate the payment of any of our indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets securing such debt would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. In past periods, there has been volatility in the market price for our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, the common stock of companies that investors deems comparable to us or our industry generally; • uncertainties created by our inability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in governmental regulations; • geopolitical conditions, such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • concentration of the ownership of our common stock and possible speculation as to our future as a stand-alone organization. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions or events, economic slowdowns, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations could also cause the market price of our common stock to decrease regardless of our operating performance. In recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect our stock price regardless of our operating results. In addition, the market price for our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation based on rumors and events relating to the Acquisition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 