Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty. All phases of our operations are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Any one or a combination of such factors could materially affect the results of our operations and the accuracy of forward-looking statements made by us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Some important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: • our business is highly cyclical; • oil and gas prices are volatile and price declines may affect us; • the highly competitive nature of the marine construction business; • operating hazards, including the unpredictable effect of natural occurrences on operations, such as hurricanes and other hazards associated with maritime activities, and the significant possibility of accidents resulting in personal injury and property damage; • risks involved in the expansion of our operations into international offshore oil and gas producing areas; • our ability to obtain and retain highly skilled personnel; • extreme weather conditions may adversely impact our operations; • seasonality of the offshore construction industry in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico; • contract bidding risks, including those involved in performing projects on a fixed-price basis and extra work performed outside the original scope of work, and the successful negotiation and collection of such contract claims; • our dependence on continued strong working relationships with significant customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico; • percentage-of-completion accounting; • estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements; • the continued active participation of our executive officers and key operating personnel; • the effect on our performance from regulatory programs and environmental matters; • our international operations are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • our ability to fund working capital requirements; • limitations on our operating and financial flexibility because of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments; • our ability to obtain performance bonds and letters of credit if required to secure our performance under new international contracts; • the potential impairment of our assets in the future; and • a possible terrorist attack or armed conflict. A more detailed discussion of the foregoing factors follows: Our business is highly cyclical As a provider of marine construction services, we depend on our customers’ willingness to make capital expenditures for developmental construction. If these expenditures decline, our business will suffer. Our customers’ willingness to make these expenditures depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions and their perceptions of 10 Table of Contents future conditions. As a result, it is possible that the current increased demand for our services may be temporary. Historically, our industry has been highly cyclical with the level of offshore marine construction activity fluctuating substantially. Any extended period of low levels of demand for our services, especially on the U.S. outer continental shelf in the Gulf of Mexico, is likely to materially and adversely affect us in many ways by negatively impacting: • revenues, profitability and cash flows; • the fair market value of our fleet of marine equipment; • our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity; and • our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business, and the cost of capital. Oil and gas prices are volatile and price declines may affect us Oil and gas prices have historically been volatile. Any reduction in oil and gas prices would likely affect the demand for our marine construction services. Expected trends in developmental construction activity may not continue and demand for our services may not reflect the level of activity in the industry. Since most of our construction activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico supports the production of natural gas, a substantial reduction in gas prices may have an adverse impact on our business, even if oil prices remain strong. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, significant fluctuation in our revenues, profitability and cash flow primarily as a result of commodity price changes. In addition, reduction in commodity price levels or industry budgets could reduce demand for developmental construction and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Worldwide political, economic and military events have contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Accordingly, oil and gas prices are expected to continue to be volatile in the future. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and gas prices, including: • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; • available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity; • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise capital; • actions by OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • political instability in the Middle East and other major oil and gas producing regions; • economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • governmental regulations, both domestic and foreign; • domestic and foreign tax policy; • weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere; • the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and gas reserves; • the price of foreign imports of oil and gas; and • the overall supply and demand for oil and gas. We operate in a highly competitive industry Our business is highly competitive because construction companies operating offshore compete vigorously for available projects, which are typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. This competitive bid process could adversely affect our international expansion strategy and the likelihood of our being awarded projects in areas where we have not performed operations. 11 Table of Contents Several of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources. Competitors with greater financial resources may be willing to sustain losses on certain projects to prevent further market entry by other competitors. In addition, marine construction vessels have few alternative uses and high maintenance costs, whether they are operating or not. As a result, some companies may bid contracts at rates below our rates. These factors may adversely affect the number of contracts that are awarded to us and the profit margins on those contracts that are awarded to us. Additionally, as a result of the competitive bidding process, our significant customers vary over time. Operating hazards may increase our operating costs and we have limited insurance coverage Offshore construction involves a high degree of operational risk. Risks of vessels capsizing, sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions are inherent in offshore operations. These hazards may cause significant personal injury or property damage, environmental damage, and suspension of operations. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits involving potentially large claims as a result of such occurrences. We maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection against the risk of physical loss or damage to our property and against the risk of liabilities to third parties. We do not, however, believe it is economically feasible to carry business interruption insurance on our assets. We cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances. Builder’s risk insurance is becoming increasingly expensive, and coverage limits have been decreasing. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Mexico occur on a relatively frequent basis. Our vessels in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and offshore Mexico and our marine bases, are located in areas that could expose them to damage and/or total loss. These extreme weather conditions could potentially cause us to curtail our operations for a period of time. As a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we may not be able to obtain future insurance coverage comparable with that of prior years, and we have experienced increased premiums for available insurance coverage and higher deductibles. Our international operations are subject to significant risks We pursue business opportunities in selected international oil and gas producing areas. These international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries including, but not limited to: • political, social, and economic instability; • potential seizure or nationalization of assets; • increased operating costs; • modification, renegotiation or nullification of contracts; • import-export quotas; • other forms of government regulation which are beyond our control; • violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange and repatriation of income or capital; and • war or terrorist activity. At any one time, we could have a significant amount of our revenues generated by operating activity in a particular country, and in many cases, our customers will be a government owned or controlled oil and gas company, which can increase our exposure to these risks. Therefore, our results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that could occur in the particular country in which we are conducting such operations. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, our competitiveness in international areas may be adversely affected by regulations, including but not limited to regulations requiring: • the awarding of contracts to local contractors; • the employment of local citizens; and • the establishment of foreign subsidiaries with significant ownership positions reserved by the foreign government for local citizens. We cannot predict what types of the above events may occur. We require highly skilled personnel We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for marine construction services has intensified due to increased demand for these services during 2006, and the availability of skilled and other labor has been limited. Shortages of qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. We currently have no employees that are unionized or employed subject to any collective bargaining or similar agreements. Unionization or similar collective actions by our employees, domestically and internationally, may adversely impact our cost of labor. Our operations may be adversely impacted by extreme weather conditions Extreme weather conditions such as tropical storms, hurricanes and cyclones and their threat will often result in the shutdown of oil and gas operations within their projected path. During these periods, we are unable to perform operations and our marine equipment is shut down. These extreme weather conditions may cause evacuations of personnel and damage to our marine equipment and facilities. Additionally, these adverse weather conditions typically occur during months where demand for our services is greatest, and may affect our ability to provide services during this period. The shutdowns, related evacuations and potential damage create unpredictability in activity which can have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The seasonality of the marine construction industry may adversely affect our operations Historically, the greatest demand for marine construction services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico has been during the period from May to September. This seasonality of the construction industry in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico is caused both by weather conditions and by the historical timing of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies to circumvent these weather conditions. As a result, revenues are typically higher in the summer months and lower in the winter months. During 2006, this historical seasonality was offset by the hurricane-related repair work that we performed in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. However, the market for marine construction services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico has returned to more traditional seasonality, which could affect our profitability from quarter to quarter. Full year results are not a direct multiple of any quarter or combination of quarters because of this seasonality. Although we pursue business opportunities in international areas that we believe will offset the seasonality in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, we cannot be sure that any international work will offset the seasonality of our operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We incur risks associated with contract bidding and the performance of extra work outside the original scope of work Historically, most of our projects are performed on a fixed-price basis. We also perform projects on a day-rate basis or cost-reimbursement basis. Changes in offshore job conditions and variations in labor and equipment productivity may affect the revenue and costs on a contract. These variations may affect our gross profits. In addition, typically during the summer construction season, and occasionally during the winter season, we bear a shared risk of interruptions, interferences and other delays caused by adverse weather conditions and other factors beyond our control with our customers. If the customer substantially increases the scope of our operations under the 13 Table of Contents contract we are subjected to greater risk of interruptions, interferences and other delays. When we perform extra work outside of the scope of the contract, we negotiate change orders and unapproved claims with our customers. In particular, unsuccessful negotiations of unapproved claims could result in decreases in estimated contract profit or additional contract losses and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and our overall liquidity. We depend on continued strong relationships with our significant customers operating in the Gulf of Mexico The marine construction industry in the Gulf of Mexico is highly competitive and contracts for work are typically awarded on a competitive bid basis. Although price is the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded the contract, we believe customers consider, among other things, the availability and technical capabilities of equipment and personnel, the condition of equipment and the efficiency and safety record of the contractor. Our continued strong relationship with customers operating it the Gulf of Mexico is important to our ability to obtain future work. We utilize percentage-of-completion accounting Since our contract revenues are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis, we periodically review contract revenue and cost estimates as the work progresses. Accordingly, adjustments are reflected in income in the period when such revisions are determined. These adjustments could result in a revision of previously reported profits, which may be significant. Estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements could differ materially from actual future results The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We must apply significant, subjective and complex estimates and judgments in this process. Because of the inherent uncertainties in this process, actual future results could differ materially from our estimates. We are dependent on key personnel Our success depends on, among other things, the continued active participation of our executive officers and certain of our other key operating personnel. Our officers and personnel have extensive experience in the marine construction industry, both domestic and international. The loss of the services of any one of these persons could adversely impact our ability to implement our expansion strategy or perform awarded work. We may incur significant expenditures to comply with governmental regulations Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations, violations of which may result in civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, and cease and desist orders. In addition, some environmental statutes may impose liability without regard to negligence or fault. Although our cost of compliance with such laws has to date been immaterial, such laws are changed frequently. Accordingly, it is impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws on our future operations. We depend on demand for our services from the oil and gas industry, and this demand may be affected by changing tax laws and oil and gas regulations. As a result, the adoption of laws that curtail oil and gas production in our areas of operation may adversely affect us. We cannot determine to what extent our operations may be affected by any new regulations or changes in existing regulations. 14 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and our failure to comply with the laws and regulations thereunder could subject us to criminal and civil penalties As a result of our international operations, we are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies that have registered their securities with the SEC and the intermediaries of such companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. During the first quarter of 2006, we reported to the SEC and the Department of Justice (DOJ) that we had discovered that one of our employees or representatives may have made an improper payment of approximately $35,000 to a customs official in a Latin American country. We have fully cooperated with the SEC and the DOJ. The SEC, DOJ and other authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal sanctions under the FCPA and other laws, which they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals in appropriate circumstances including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, fines, penalties and modifications to business practices and compliance programs. Such agencies and authorities have entered into agreements with, and obtained a range of sanctions against, several public corporations and individuals, arising from allegations of improper payments and deficiencies in books and records and internal controls, whereby civil and criminal penalties were imposed, including in some cases multi-million dollar fines and other sanctions. Based on current information, we believe we have satisfied the SEC and DOJ regarding the actions we have taken on this reported event. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA, including with regard to the matter we have reported to the SEC and the DOJ, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to finance our debt obligations and capital requirements depends on sufficient cash flow from our operations We require substantial working capital to fund our business and meet our debt service and other obligations. Our ability to service our existing debt, provide working capital and fund our capital expenditure requirements will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. It is important that we successfully perform our marine construction projects, continue to obtain additional projects and collect our receivables for work we perform. Our ability to generate cash in the future depends on demand for construction services by the oil and gas industry as a result of the levels of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies and on competitive, general economic, financial, and many other factors that may be beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to provide us with the working capital required to support our operations. We may experience periodic cash demands that exceed our cash flow. Our failure to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to provide adequate working capital would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our debt instruments contain covenants that may limit our operating and financial flexibility Our debt instruments contain financial covenants and a significant number of other covenants that limit many aspects of our operations, including our ability to create additional liens, incur additional debt, enter into affiliate transactions, dispose of assets, make any investments and pay dividends, in each case, without the consent of our lenders. Any failure to meet the financial covenants or comply with these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities. In this event, we would need to seek waivers or consents from our lenders. In the event that we are unable to obtain a waiver of any future violations, our lenders would have the right to accelerate our debt with them, and cross-default provisions would result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which would have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Our ability to obtain performance bonds and letters of credit required to secure our performance under contracts may affect our ability to bid and obtain contract awards We have been in the past and could be in the future required to provide cash collateral to secure performance bonds and letters of credit on large international contracts, including contracts which have already been awarded and are in various stages of completion. If we are unable to secure performance bonds and letters of credit with cash collateral when and if they are required, we may not be able to bid on or obtain contracts requiring performance bonds or letters of credit, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges In the past, we have recorded asset impairment losses and charges on assets, including several of our marine construction vessels, the carrying value of which we determined were in excess of their estimated fair value. We will continue to review our long-lived assets for impairment that may occur as a result of changes in our business plans, a significant decrease in the market value of long-lived assets, or change in the physical condition of a long-lived asset or the extent or manner in which it is being used or a severe or sustained downturn in the oil and gas industry. The amount of any impairment charge could be significant, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. A possible terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict involving the U.S. may adversely affect the U.S. and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our debt service, financial and other contractual obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for marine construction services. Oil and gas related facilities and assets, including our marine equipment, could be direct targets for terrorists attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers’ operations is damaged or destroyed. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our operations in international areas abroad may increase these risks. Cautionary Statements Some of the statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements about our expectations of what may happen in the future. Statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements can sometimes be identified by our use of forward-looking words like “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “plan” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our future results and stockholder value may differ significantly from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Many of the factors that will determine these results and values are beyond our ability to control or predict. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results to be very different from and worse than our expectations expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statement. These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” above. Such forward-looking statements may include statements that relate to: • our business plans or strategies, and projected or anticipated benefits or other consequences of such plans or strategies; • our objectives; • projected or anticipated benefits from future or past acquisitions; • projections involving anticipated capital expenditures or revenues, earnings or other aspects of capital projects or operating results; and • financing. Our management believes that the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are reasonable. However, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based only on our current expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of them in light of new information or future events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 