ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition In the past year, significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks has led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Commercial Real Estate and Business Loans Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risks At December 31, 2008, our portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $3.5 billion, or 54% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally exposes us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease Our customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Risk Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Upstate New York, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in this market. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in Upstate New York have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. 18 Table of Contents Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in our net interest income. We have taken steps to mitigate this risk such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities available for sale. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, our investment securities available for sale totaled $1.6 billion. Unrealized losses on our securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $12.7 million and are reported in other comprehensive income as a separate component of our stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of our securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Conditions in Insurance Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings As we have become increasingly reliant on noninterest income, particularly insurance fees and commissions, these revenue levels could be negatively impacted by the fluctuating premiums in the insurance market caused by capacity constraints and losses due to natural disasters. Other factors that affect our insurance revenue are profitability and growth of our clients, continued development of new products and services, as well as our access to markets. Our Ability to Grow May Be Limited if We Cannot Make Acquisitions In an effort to fully deploy our capital and to increase our loans and deposits, we intend to continue to acquire other financial institutions, financial services companies, or branches. We compete with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. We cannot predict if or when we will be able to identify and attract acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we incur risks and challenges associated with the integration of acquired institutions in a timely and efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving anticipated operating efficiencies. Our Expanding Branch Network May Affect Our Financial Performance Since 1998, we have expanded our branch network by both acquiring financial institutions and establishing de novo branches. At December 31, 2008, we operated 114 branches, which included an incremental increase of seven branches resulting from our acquisition of Great Lakes Bancorp, Inc. in February 2008. We cannot assure that our ongoing branch expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings, or that it will be accretive to our earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel, and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate enough income to offset its expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. Strong Competition May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. 19 Table of Contents We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the OTS, FDIC, and the NYSBD. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws rule or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. The Soundness of Other Financial Services Institutions May Adversely Affect Our Credit Risk We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease The EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 for all accounts through December 31, 2009. In addition, we have enrolled in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program for noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts. This, along with the full utilization or our assessment credit in early 2009 will cause the premiums assessed by the FDIC to increase. These actions will significantly increase our noninterest expense in 2009 and in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. Changes In Federal Statutes May Adversely Affect the Terms of our Letter Agreement with the Treasury Pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement (“Agreement”) we entered into with the Treasury under the CPP, the Treasury may amend any provision of the Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes. Any change in such Agreement could have a material impact on us and our operations. There can be no assurance that federal statutes will not be adopted in the future that will adversely affect the terms of the CPP and our financial condition. In addition, future federal statutes may contain retroactive restrictions which may adversely affect our ability to comply with the terms of the Agreement or effectively manage our business, and therefore, we may choose to redeem the preferred shares issued under the CPP. We May be required to Make a Contribution to Our Pension Plan in 2009 Deteriorating economic conditions have led to decreased confidence in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, causing extreme volatility in interest rates and equity prices. As a result, we experienced a significant decline in the fair value of our pension plan assets such that our pension plan is underfunded at December 31, 2008. If the fair value of our pension plan assets does not recover to previous levels, we will be required to make a contribution to our plan in 2009, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A Substantial Decline in the Value of our FHLB of New York Common Stock May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition We own common stock of FHLB of New York in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB of New York’s advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB of New York common stock was $62.3 million as of December 31, 2008. FHLB of New York recently reduced its dividend by one-half and recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including FHLB of New York, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB of New York common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the capitalization of FHLB of New York is substantially diminished and if it further reduces or suspends its dividend, our liquidity may be adversely impaired if we are not able to obtain an alternative source of funding. 20 Table of Contents Certain of Our Intangible Assets May Become Impaired in the Future We test our intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. Our impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangibles which may be less than the carrying value, which may adversely affect our financial condition. If we determine an impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on our intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 