ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. A slowing of improvement or a return to deteriorating business and economic conditions could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; and • An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Commercial Real Estate and Business Loans Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risks At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $10.0 billion, or 61% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. Increases to the Provision for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease Our customers might not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans might be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. 24 Table of Contents Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Risk Our success is impacted by the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, primarily Upstate New York, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Western Massachusetts. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on those loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally may result in a decrease in our net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of our investment securities, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. As prepayment speeds on mortgage related securities increase, the premium amortization increases prospectively, and additionally there would be a catch up adjustment required under the application of the interest method of income recognition, and will therefore result in lower net interest income. Under these circumstances, we are also subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. The Success of the HSBC Acquisition Will Depend on a Number of Uncertain Factors Consummation of the HSBC Acquisition is subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals, as well as antitrust approvals (or expirations of waiting periods), and the satisfaction of other closing conditions. In addition, the success of the HSBC Acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the necessary regulatory approvals to consummate the HSBC Acquisition not containing terms, conditions or restrictions that will be detrimental to, or have a material adverse effect on, the Bank; • our ability to successfully integrate the branches acquired as part of the HSBC Acquisition (the “HSBC Branches”) into the current operations of the Bank; • our ability to limit the outflow of deposits assumed and to retain interest earning assets (i.e., loans) acquired in the HSBC Acquisition; • the credit quality of loans acquired as part of the HSBC Acquisition; 25 Table of Contents • our ability to attract new deposits and to generate new interest earning assets; • our ability to deploy the cash received in the HSBC Acquisition on a timely basis in today’s low interest rate environment, into assets, including investment securities, bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • our ability to invest the fund acquired in the HSBC Acquisition into loans at sufficient yields; • our ability to control the incremental noninterest expense from the HSBC Branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • our ability to retain and attract appropriate personnel to staff the HSBC Branches; • our ability to earn acceptable levels of noninterest income, including fee income, from the HSBC Branches; and • our ability to retain the relationship managers and district sales executives we expect to hire in connection with the HSBC Acquisition, and the related assets under management. No assurance can be given that the HSBC Acquisition will not expose us to other unknown material liabilities, that the operation of the HSBC Branches will not adversely affect our existing profitability, that we will be able to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, that we will be able to compete effectively in new market areas, or that we will be able to manage growth resulting from the HSBC Acquisition effectively. The difficulties or costs we may encounter in the integration could materially and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If We Continue to Grow and Our Total Consolidated Assets Reach $50 Billion, We Will Become Subject to Stricter Prudential Standards Required by the Dodd-Frank Act for Large Bank Holding Companies. The Federal Reserve, pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, has proposed rules applying stricter prudential standards to, among others, bank holding companies having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The stricter prudential standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity requirements, risk-management requirements, annual stress testing conducted by the Federal Reserve, credit limits and early remediation regimes; the Federal Reserve is also required by the Dodd-Frank Act to adopt rules regarding credit exposure reporting by these institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act permits, but does not require, the Federal Reserve to apply to these institutions heightened prudential standards in a number of other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosure. We completed three acquisitions during the last several years that have contributed substantially to our growth — NewAlliance (in 2011) and Harleysville (in 2010), both discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Overview” in this report, and our acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities related to 57 branches of National City Bank in Western Pennsylvania (2009), addressed in prior filings under the Exchange Act. At December 31, 2008, our total consolidated assets were $9.3 billion, as compared to $32.8 billion at December 31, 2011. Upon consummation of the HSBC Acquisition, we expect to have approximately $38 billion in total consolidated assets. If our assets reach the $50 billion threshold, whether driven by organic growth or future acquisitions, we will become subject to the stricter prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Growing By Acquisition Entails Certain Risks In 2010 we acquired Harleysville, in 2011 we acquired NewAlliance, and we expect to complete our pending HSBC Acquisition on May 18, 2012, subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. We will continue to evaluate other acquisition opportunities, including of financial institutions, financial services companies and branches. Growth by acquisition involves risks. The success of our acquisitions may depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the acquired company with our businesses in a manner that does not result in decreased revenues resulting from any disruption of existing customer relationships of the acquired company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than planned. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company we may acquire may deteriorate after the acquisition agreement is signed or after the acquisition closes. We May Incur Restructuring Charges That May Reduce Our Earnings We continually evaluate the efficiency of our operations. From time to time, we may engage in certain cost-cutting measures to improve efficiency. Charges related to such efforts could adversely affect earnings in the period in which the charges are incurred. 27 Table of Contents Strong Competition May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of financial institutions. Our compensation plans are an important element in the attraction and retention of key employees. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire these people or to retain them. We Are Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the financial system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about the regulation to which we are subject. Any Future FDIC Insurance Premium Increases May Adversely Affect our Earnings The amount that is assessed by the FDIC for deposit insurance is set by the FDIC based on a variety of factors. These include the DIF’s reserve ratio, the Bank’s assessment base, which is equal to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, and various inputs into the FDIC’s assessment rate calculation, including the Bank’s: • CAMELS rating, • criticized and classified assets, • capital levels, including the Tier 1 leverage ratio • higher-risk assets, defined as constructions and development loans, leveraged loans and securities, nontraditional mortgages and subprime consumer loans, • ratio of core earnings to average assets, • ratio of core deposits to total liabilities, • liquidity ratio (as defined by the FDIC), • our projected shortfall (in event of failure) between projected insured deposits and the projected assets available to pay off projected insured deposits as a percentage of current domestic deposits, • amount of unsecured debt, including subordinated debt and debt issues by another depository institution, and • amount of brokered deposits. If there are additional financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. See “Supervision and Regulation—Deposit Insurance” for more information about FDIC insurance premiums. 28 Table of Contents We Are a Holding Company and Depend on Our Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by the Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of the OCC affect the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See “Payment of Dividends” above under “Supervision and Regulation.” In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We Hold Certain Intangible Assets that Could Be Classified as Impaired in The Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired in the Future, Earnings Could Decrease We are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank’s ability to make dividend payments to us. We Are Subject to a Variety of Operational Risks, Including Reputational Risk, Legal and Compliance Risk, the Risk of Fraud or Theft by Employees or Outsiders, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems or disclosure of confidential proprietary information of our customers. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, sales practices, customer treatment, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about our other business. If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and the large transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, perhaps materially. 29 Table of Contents Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Security Breach We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Anti-takeover Laws and Certain Agreements and Charter Provisions May Adversely Affect Share Value Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without our board of directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquirer and thus could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 