Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion elaborates on some of these risks. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or secure additional sources of financing in the future, we will be unable to continue operations as a going concern While our financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern, the independent accounting firm’s report on our December 31, 2005 financial statements, prepared by Tanner LC, included an explanatory paragraph relating to their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our business model relies upon generating new sales to existing and new customers. On March 30, 2006 we completed a capital raising transaction for gross proceeds of approximately $6.3 million (before expenses and repayment of $1.1 million of interim financing obligations). We believe that with the proceeds of this capital transaction, and new sales that we believe that we can close during 2006, we will have sufficient liquidity for our operations during 2006. However, if we do not close sufficient new sales to existing and new customers, we would be required to pursue one or a combination of the following remedies: seek additional sources of financing, further reduce operating expenses, sell part or all of our assets, or terminate operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful achieving sufficient cash flow. We continue to experience difficulty in securing customer revenue We have experienced difficulty closing substantial new sales, and it is unclear when or if we can expect to predictably close material sales to new or existing customers. Our recent strategy of selling small, proof-of-concept initial “penetrate” projects, and then seeking to “radiate” into the account by selling additional services and licenses was not successful in generating sufficient sales to achieve profitability or positive cash flow. Under the leadership of our new Chief Executive Officer, Robert W. Felton, we have recently changed our business model to focus on selling larger consulting projects but we have not yet closed any sales under this model. Furthermore, our uncertain future may make it less likely for customers to want to do business with us. As a result, there is no assurance that we will be able to convince existing customers or future prospective customers to purchase products or services from us or that any customer revenue that is achieved can be sustained. If we are unable to obtain future customer revenue or outside financing, our operations, financial condition, liquidity, and prospects will be materially and adversely affected, and we would be required to pursue one or a combination of the following remedies: seek additional sources of financing, further reduce operating expenses, sell part or all of our assets, or terminate operations. Our sales cycle can be lengthy and subject to delays and these delays could cause our operating results to suffer We believe that a customer’s decision to purchase significant products or services from us can involve a significant commitment of resources and be influenced by customer budget cycles. To successfully sell our products and services, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the use and benefit of our products and services. Getting new customers to purchase significant licenses or services can require significant time and resources. Consequently, the period between initial contact and the purchase of our products or services can be long and subject to delays associated with the lengthy budgeting, approval, and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. Sales delays could cause our operating results to vary widely. There can be no assurance that we will not experience sales delays in the future. In addition, we face a challenging sales environment and there can be no assurance that we will have sales in the future. We are substantially dependent on a small number of customers and the loss of one or more of these customers may cause revenues and cash flow to decline We have derived, and over the near term we expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. For example, three customers accounted for a 18 Table of Contents total of 49 percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 (individually 20 percent, 18 percent, and 11 percent, respectively). For the year ended December 31, 2004, three customers accounted for a total of 87 percent of total revenue (individually 50 percent, 22 percent and 15 percent, respectively). Significant reductions in the amount of business major customers conduct with us has previously and may in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Replacing the loss of a major customer is unpredictable, and we have not been successful in doing so in the past. Revenues and cash flows from a single customer or a few major customers may constitute a significant portion of our total revenues and cash inflows in a particular period, then decline as the volume of work performed for specific customers decreases as they complete projects. A major customer in one period may not continue to purchase significant licenses or services from us in a subsequent period. The customer accounting for 20 percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, completed its use of our time-and-materials consulting services for its application development project during the quarter ended December 31, 3005. The customer accounting for 18 percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, substantially completed its application development project during the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The customer accounting for 11 percent of our total revenues for the year ending December 31, 2005, DevonWay, is a related party. See Note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements for more information. In future periods, we do not expect the amount of revenue from these customers to be significant as they have completed their current projects. We have not sold new projects to replace these projects, and are not currently working on any significant consulting projects (which have been our primary source of revenue in recent years). Our growth and success depends on our ability to successfully implement our new business model; however, we have limited experience with the new model Under the leadership of our new Chief Executive Officer, Robert W. Felton, we have recently changed our business model to focus on selling larger consulting projects, instead of the smaller prototype application projects that we primarily sold in 2005. Although we hope to be more successful with this new model, we have limited experience with the new model as we have introduced it only recently, and have not yet closed any sales under this model. Under this new model, we expect to take on larger, more difficult and complex consulting projects than we typically have in recent years. Under our original fixed-price project business model that we discontinued several years ago, we received customer complaints and lawsuits concerning some of our projects. Although we have substantially changed our business model, including no longer offering to do such projects on a fixed-price basis or providing a money-back guarantee, we cannot be certain that we will not receive customer complaints in the future. Such complaints would likely adversely affect our ability to sell to other customers. If our new strategy for selling and delivering our services and products is unsuccessful, or if we are unable to close significant new business within the time frames anticipated, our revenues and operating results will continue to suffer. Our historical quarterly operating results have varied significantly and our future operating results could vary Historically, our quarterly operating results have varied significantly. For example, during some years, we have had quarterly profits followed by losses in subsequent quarters. Our future operating results may vary significantly in the future as well. Until we achieve and sustain material sales to new or existing customers, we expect to continue to experience declining revenues and losses. Our future prospects are difficult to evaluate In light of our operating results for recent periods and the continued difficult sales environment we face and in the technology sector in general, it is difficult to evaluate our future prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete current or new projects. Additionally, our failure to successfully complete any current or new projects may have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will succeed. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to attract and retain highly skilled employees, particularly consultants, project managers and other senior technical personnel, could impair our ability to complete projects and expand our business Our services business is labor intensive. We currently have only a small number of consultants in our consulting organization. We expect to supplement them on projects with members of our Development organization for projects in the near term. Longer term, our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly consultants, project managers and other senior technical personnel. Any failure on our part to do so would impair our ability to adequately manage and complete existing projects, bid for and obtain new projects, and expand business. There exists significant competition for employees with the skills required to perform the services we offer. Qualified consultants, project managers and senior technical staff are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Our current financial condition, and our prior restructurings and related headcount reductions, may make it more difficult for us to retain and compete for such employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining, training, and motivating our employees or in attracting new, highly skilled employees. If we are unsuccessful in this effort or if our employees are unable to achieve expected performance levels, our business will be harmed. A loss of Robert W. Felton, Jeffrey L. Walker, or any other key employee could impair our business Our industry is competitive and we are substantially dependent upon the continued service of our existing executive personnel, especially Robert W. Felton, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer. Furthermore, our products and technologies are complex and we are substantially dependent upon the continued service of our senior technical staff, including Jeffrey L. Walker, Executive Vice President, and Chief Technology Officer. If a key employee resigns to join a competitor or to form a competing company, the loss of the employee and any resulting loss of existing or potential customers to the competing company would harm our business. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our employees. We have not entered into employment agreements with our executives. In the event of the loss of key personnel, there can be no assurance that we would be able to prevent their unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices, or procedures. If we fail to adequately anticipate employee and resource utilization rates, our operating results could suffer A high percentage of our operating expenses, particularly personnel and rent, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number, or progress toward completion, of our projects or in employee utilization rates did and may continue to cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could result in quarterly losses. Time-and-materials consulting arrangements can typically be terminated by a customer on short notice. An unanticipated termination of a major project, the delay of a project, or the completion during a quarter of several projects has in the past and may continue to result in under-utilized employees and could, therefore, cause us to suffer quarterly losses or cause adverse results of operations. Our errors and omissions coverage may not cover contractual disputes While we maintain errors and omissions insurance coverage for claims related to customer contract disputes within the coverage scope and term, given the nature and complexity of the factors affecting the estimated liabilities, actual liabilities may exceed or be outside the scope of our current errors and omissions coverage. We can give no assurance that our insurance carrier will extend coverage to future claims. In addition, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to material additional liabilities and significant additional litigation relating to errors and omissions arising from future claims. Our errors and omissions insurance policy is in the form of an industry standard software errors and omissions policy. As such, it only covers software errors and omissions that occur after the delivery of software and excludes contractual disputes such as service commitments and cost and time related guarantees. We have previously had contractual disputes related to our guarantees. While we have substantially changed our business model and no longer offer a money-back guarantee, no assurance can 20 Table of Contents be given that we will not be subject to these types of claims in the future. In the event that liabilities from claims are not covered by or exceed our errors and omissions coverage, our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. If our software contains defects or other limitations, we could face product liability exposure Because of our limited operating history and our small number of customers, we have completed a limited number of projects that are now in production. As a result, there may be undiscovered material defects in our products or technology. Furthermore, complex software products often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by current and potential customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects. Serious defects or errors could result in lost revenues or a delay in market acceptance, which would damage our reputation and business. Because our customers may use our products for mission-critical applications, errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to customers. Our customers could seek damages for these losses. Any successful claims for these losses, to the extent not covered by insurance, could result in our being obligated to pay substantial damages, which would cause operating results to suffer. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our liability, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations of liability provisions. A product liability claim brought against us, even if not successful, would likely be time consuming and costly. We are involved in one litigation matter and in settlement discussions with our prior CEO, and may in the future be involved in further litigation or disputes that may be costly and time-consuming, and if we suffer adverse outcomes, our operating results could suffer We are involved in a class action suit against more than 300 issuers involving the underwriters of those issuers’ initial public offerings. Although we currently expect to resolve this matter without significant cost to TenFold, we may in the future face other litigation or disputes with customers, employees, business partners, stockholders, or other third parties. Such litigation or disputes could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. An unfavorable outcome of this matter may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized estimated severance related charges related to the departure of our prior CEO totaling $670,000, including an estimated option modification charge of $157,000; which represents our best estimate as the separation terms have not been finalized. The parties are in settlement discussions but a settlement has not been reached. An unfavorable outcome of this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. See Note 9 “Legal Proceedings and Contingencies” of Notes to Financial Statements for more information concerning our litigation and disputes. Our settlements with Perot Systems and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center require that if we do not meet certain obligations their claims may be re-instated or re-asserted, and if this were to happen and we suffer adverse judgments, our operating results could suffer Although we have settled prior disputes with Perot Systems and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, and during 2004 entered into revised agreements with Cedars that confirm our completion of the earlier project and provide for mutual releases from prior related claims, our agreements still require that we perform and meet certain obligations. If we are unable to or do not perform or meet these obligations, Perot Systems and Cedars may re-instate or re-assert their respective prior claims against us. If either Perot Systems or Cedars were to re-instate or re-assert their respective claims, an unfavorable outcome of the matter may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. If we cannot protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position would be impaired and we may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation Our success is dependent, in large part, upon our proprietary EnterpriseTenFold technology and other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce these intellectual property rights, our competitors will have the ability to introduce competing products that are similar to ours, and our revenues, market share, and operating results will suffer. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other 21 Table of Contents contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. We have been issued three patents in the United States and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology when appropriate. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. The laws of some countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that would harm our business. To date, we have not been notified that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products. We expect software developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A successful claim against us of product infringement and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology on favorable terms would harm our business. If we fail to successfully compete, our revenues and market share will be adversely affected The market for our products and services is highly competitive, and if we are not successful in competing in this market, our revenues and market share will suffer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues, and have greater name recognition than we do. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into our markets and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into our markets. International political and economic uncertainty could have an adverse impact on our business and on our operating results Revenues from customers outside of North America were approximately 11 percent of total revenues for 2005, and approximately 20 percent of total revenues for 2004. The international political and economic uncertainty caused by the ongoing war on terrorism and other international political developments may adversely impact our ability to continue existing relationships with our foreign customers and to develop new business abroad. Our stock price may continue to be volatile Our stock price has fluctuated widely in the past and could continue to do so in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock, in addition to those mentioned in this section, include: further decreases in our cash resources, changes in our revenue; changes in our customer base including the loss of a major customer; changes in management; variations in our quarterly financial results; problems implementing our business model; reports or earnings estimates published by financial analysts; changes in political, economic and market conditions either generally or specifically to particular industries; and fluctuations in stock prices generally, particularly with respect to the stock prices for other technology companies. A significant drop in our stock price could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits. Defending against such lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. An unfavorable outcome of such a matter may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. 22 Table of Contents No corporate actions requiring stockholder approval can take place without the approval of our controlling stockholders The executive officers, directors, and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 70 percent of our voting stock (as calculated using the SEC’s conventions). These stockholders acting together or with others would be able to decide or significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a merger or other business combination transaction, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our other stockholders. The anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and/or under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stock incentive plans and Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 