Item 1A.Risk Factors Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2.Properties Item 3.Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4a. Executive Officers of the Registrant PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 — EnergySouth, Inc. — Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Employment Agreement - Ben J. Reese Subsidiaries Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General EnergySouth, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “Registrant”, and exclusive of its subsidiaries, “EnergySouth”) was initially incorporated under the laws of the State of Alabama and in February 1998 became the holding company for Mobile Gas Service Corporation (“Mobile Gas”), a natural gas utility, and its subsidiaries. Effective February 1, 2007, EnergySouth reincorporated in the State of Delaware as approved by the shareholders at the annual meeting of shareholders held January 26, 2007. Mobile Gas was incorporated under the laws of the State of Alabama in 1933. Mobile Gas is engaged in the purchase, distribution, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 95,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers in Southwest Alabama, including the City of Mobile. Mobile Gas’ service territory covers approximately 300 square miles. Mobile Gas is also involved in merchandise sales, specifically sales of natural gas appliances. EnergySouth Midstream, Inc. (“Midstream”) was incorporated under the name of EnergySouth Storage Services, Inc. on December 4, 1991. In December 2000, Midstream became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EnergySouth. As of September 30, 2007, in addition to owning 100% of EnergySouth Services, Inc. (“Services”), Midstream also held a general partnership interest of 90.9% in Bay Gas Storage Company, Ltd. (“Bay Gas”), an Alabama limited partnership in which a 9.1% limited partnership interest was held by Olin Corporation. Bay Gas owns and operates underground gas storage and related pipeline facilities which are used to provide storage and delivery of natural gas for Mobile Gas and other customers. Services was incorporated in March 1983. Through Services, the Company provides natural gas marketing, trading and risk management activities. Services owns a 51% interest in Southern Gas Transmission Company, an Alabama general partnership which was formed in November 1991 and has since 1992 provided transportation services from the facilities of Gulf South Pipeline Company (“Gulf South”) near Flomaton, Alabama to the facilities of Alabama River Pulp Company, Inc. in Claiborne, Alabama. Service became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Midstream on June 12, 2007. MGS Marketing Services, Inc. (“Marketing”) was incorporated in 1993 to assist existing and potential customers in the purchase of natural gas. Marketing became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EnergySouth during fiscal year 1998. Marketing is no longer actively engaged in business. Business Segments The Company’s operations are classified into the following business segments: • Natural Gas Distribution – The Natural Gas Distribution segment is actively engaged in the distribution and transportation of natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in Southwest Alabama through Mobile Gas. • Natural Gas Midstream – The Natural Gas Midstream segment provides for the underground storage of natural gas and transportation services through the operations of Bay Gas and transportation services through the operations of SGT. Through Services’ office in Houston, Texas, Midstream manages and optimizes transportation and storage assets through natural gas marketing, trading and risk management activities. The storage and transportation operations are currently located in Southwest Alabama with additional operations planned at the Mississippi Hub gas storage facility under development near Jackson, Mississippi, which was acquired in late November, 2007. 1 Table of Contents • Other – Includes merchandising, financing, and other energy-related services which are provided through Mobile Gas and are aggregated with the corporate operations of EnergySouth, the holding company. For financial information by business segment, including revenues by segment, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007, 2006, and 2005, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Customers Of the approximately 95,000 customers of the Company, approximately 95% are residential customers. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, approximately 53% of the Company’s gas revenues were derived from residential sales, 16% from small commercial and industrial sales, 8% from large commercial and industrial sales, 8% from transportation services, and 15% from storage and miscellaneous services. Residential sales in fiscal 2007 accounted for approximately 4% of the total volume of gas delivered to the Company’s customers, with small commercial and industrial, large commercial and industrial, and transportation deliveries accounting for approximately 2%, 1% and 93%, respectively. For further information with respect to revenues from and deliveries to the various categories of the Company’s customers, see Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” below. Gross margins, defined as gas revenues less cost of gas, by business segment are shown in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The ten largest customers of the Company accounted for approximately 21% of the Company’s gross margin in fiscal 2007, with the largest accounting for approximately 8%. Gas Supply The Company is directly connected to three natural gas processing plants in south Mobile County and one processing plant in north Mobile County. The Company has firm supply contracts for varying monthly payments with Chevron Natural Gas through October 31, 2008 and Exxon Mobil through November 30, 2007, and month to month thereafter, through Mobile Gas’ direct connection with the Hatters Pond processing plant. Mobile Gas has a current peak day firm requirement of 104,000 MMBtus. Firm supply needs of 80,000 MMBtu/day are expected to be met through the withdrawal of gas from the storage facility owned by Bay Gas. The Company has contracted for firm transportation and storage service (“No-Notice Service”) for 24,000 MMBtu/day from Gulf South under an agreement effective through March 31, 2011. The gas supply requirement for the No-Notice Service is met through a contract with BP Energy Company through March 31, 2008. Natural Gas Midstream Operations The natural gas midstream segment currently provides for the underground storage of natural gas and transportation services through the operations of Bay Gas and transportation services through the operations of SGT. During fiscal 2007, the Company expanded its midstream operations to include the management and optimization of transportation and storage assets through natural gas marketing, trading and risk management activities. Construction of Bay Gas’ first storage cavern and facilities was completed in 1994 and currently has a working gas capacity of approximately 2.3 million MMBtu. The construction of natural gas-fired electric generation facilities in the Southeast has provided opportunities to provide increased gas storage and transportation services. Construction of Bay Gas’ second storage cavern was completed and the cavern was placed into service April 1, 2003. Currently, the second storage cavern has a working gas capacity of 3.7 Bcf. Together, the two caverns at Bay Gas currently hold 6.0 Bcf, with injection and withdrawal capacity of 200 MMcf and 610 MMcf per day, respectively. 2 Table of Contents Bay Gas is currently developing a third storage cavern and related facilities and has entered into multi-year contracts with customers for all of the cavern capacity. The new cavern is designed to add 5.0 Bcf of working gas capacity and is presently anticipated to be in service by April 2008. The addition of the third cavern and additional capacity development of 1.0 Bcf in one or more of the first three caverns is currently planned to ultimately increase the total working gas capacity of Bay Gas to 12.0 Bcf with injection and withdrawal capacities to 450 MMcf per day and 1.2 Bcf per day, respectively. Having reached full subscription of the current working capacity of both existing caverns and the third cavern which is currently under development, Bay Gas plans development of two new 5.0 Bcf high deliverability underground salt-dome caverns together with additional pipeline interconnects with Transco. Midstream is currently communicating with respondents in an effort to secure agreements for firm storage services. Bay Gas has begun drilling operations for development of the fourth cavern and plans to move forward with development of the fifth cavern and the pipeline interconnects subject to its ability to execute sufficient firm storage agreements with interested parties. Bay Gas’ growth has reflected the rapid growth in natural gas utilization in the markets it serves. Establishing interconnects with the Transco pipeline system will allow additional prospective customers to access Bay Gas. This interstate pipeline system serves a number of traditional, wintertime markets for natural gas in the United States and will complement the warmer weather markets currently connected to Bay Gas. Management believes that Bay Gas, with the possible construction of additional caverns and new interstate pipeline interconnects, is well positioned to serve the storage needs of these markets. As described above, Bay Gas plans to move forward with development of the fourth and fifth cavern and the new pipeline interconnects subject to its ability to execute sufficient firm storage agreements with the interested parties. In its Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 5, 2007, the Company reported that Midstream had entered into agreements to acquire the Mississippi Hub gas storage facility project under development near Jackson, Mississippi, and the completion of that acquisition was reported in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 4, 2007. Midstream operations include revenues from transportation and storage services provided to customers under long-term contracts and short-term interruptible contracts and include the value realized by optimizing the storage and transportation capacity that Midstream owns. Midstream participates in natural gas storage transactions in which it seeks to capture the pricing differences that occur over time. Midstream purchases physical natural gas and then sells financial contracts at favorable prices to lock in a gross profit margin. Additionally, Midstream periodically participates in park and loan transactions in which physical gas is borrowed and later repaid. Through the use of transportation and storage services and derivatives, Midstream is able to capture gross profit margin through the arbitrage of pricing differences in various locations and by recognizing pricing differences that occur over time. Competition Gas Distribution Competition. The Company is not in significant direct competition with respect to the retail distribution of natural gas to residential, small commercial and small industrial customers within its primary service area; however, it does compete with municipal gas distributors in some rural areas and in one small community which has allowed multiple gas franchises. Electricity competes with natural gas for such uses as cooking, water heating and space heating. The Company’s large commercial and industrial customers with requirements of approximately 200 MMBtu per day or more have the right to contract with the Company to transport customer-owned gas while other commercial and industrial customers buy natural gas from the Company. Some industrial customers have the capability to use either fuel oil, coal, wood chips or natural gas, and choose their fuel depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and price of such fuels. In recent years, the Company has had adequate supplies so that interruptible industrial customers that are capable of using alternative fuels have not had supplies curtailed. The Company’s rate tariffs include a competitive fuel clause which allows the Company to adjust its rates to certain large commercial and industrial customers in order to compete with alternative 3 Table of Contents energy sources. Even so, in recent periods of volatility in natural gas prices, several customers who have the capability to use alternative fuels have switched to such alternative fuel sources in periods of extremely high natural gas prices. See “Rates and Regulation” below. Due to the close proximity of various pipelines and gas processing plants to the Company’s service area, there exists the possibility that current or prospective customers could install their own facilities and connect directly to a supply source and thereby “bypass” the Company’s service. The Company believes that because it has worked closely with major industrial customers to meet those customers’ needs, and because of its ability to provide competitive pricing under its rate tariffs, none of the Company’s customers have bypassed its facilities to date. Although there can be no assurance as to future developments, the Company intends to continue its efforts to reduce the likelihood of bypass by offering competitive rates and services to such customers. Midstream Competition. A number of types of competitors may provide services like or in competition with those of Midstream. These include, among others, natural gas storage facilities, natural gas aggregators, and natural gas pipelines. Midstream believes that its strategic geographic location and its ability to charge market-based rates for interstate storage services will enable it to effectively compete with such competitors. See “Rates and Regulation” below. Rates and Regulation The natural gas distribution operations of Mobile Gas are under the jurisdiction of the Alabama Public Service Commission (“APSC”). The APSC approves rates which are intended to permit the recovery of the cost of service including a return on investment. Rates were historically determined by reference to rate tariffs approved by the APSC in traditional rate proceedings or, for certain large customers, on a case-by-case basis. In addition, pursuant to APSC order, rates for a limited number of large industrial customers are determined on a privately negotiated basis. Since December 1, 1995, Mobile Gas has also been allowed to recover costs associated with its replacement of cast iron mains. This component of rates is adjusted annually through a filing with the APSC. The rates for service rendered by Mobile Gas are on file with the APSC. The APSC also approves the issuance of debt and equity securities and has supervision and regulatory authority over service, pipeline safety, accounting, and other matters. Mobile Gas has utilized a Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE) rate setting process since October 1, 2002. On June 14, 2005, the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) issued an order to extend RSE on substantially the same basis from October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2009. In addition, absent an APSC order after that date modifying the RSE rate tariff, RSE shall continue in effect beyond September 30, 2009. RSE is a ratemaking methodology also used by the APSC to regulate certain other public Alabama energy utilities. A rate adjustment designed to increase Mobile Gas’ annual gas revenues by approximately $4.2 million was implemented December 1, 2006. Previous rate adjustments were implemented under the RSE tariff which were designed to decrease annual gas revenues by approximately $303,000 effective December 1, 2005 and to increase annual gas revenues by approximately $1.7 million effective December 1, 2004. The December 1, 2005 rate decrease was due primarily to the return of approximately $1,350,000 of the regulatory liability for gross receipts tax collections to ratepayers during fiscal 2006. Mobile Gas’ rates, as established under RSE, allow a return on average equity within a range of 13.35% to 13.85% for the period. Mobile Gas is allowed to earn a return on all of its assets with no exclusions. Increases are allowed only once each fiscal year, effective December 1, and cannot exceed four percent of prior-year revenues. Under RSE, the APSC conducts reviews using fiscal year-to-date performance through January, April, and July plus Mobile Gas’ budget projections to determine whether Mobile Gas’ return on equity is expected to be within the allowed range at the end of the fiscal year. No such adjustments were required for fiscal 2006 or through the July 2005 test periods. Mobile Gas’ financial results for fiscal year 2005 did, however, result in a return on equity above the allowed range. As a result, adjustments of $433,000 were made to fiscal year 2005 pre-tax earnings such that the return on equity, as calculated for RSE purposes, equaled 13.6%, the midpoint of the allowed range, and a regulatory liability 4 Table of Contents was recorded which reflected the amount owed to customers. Reductions in rates were made in fiscal year 2006 which resulted in $433,000 being fully refunded to customers by the end of the fiscal year. RSE limits the amount of Mobile Gas’ equity upon which a return within the allowed range is permitted to 60 percent of its total capitalization and provides for certain cost control measures designed to monitor Mobile Gas’ operations and maintenance (O&M) expense. Under the inflation-based cost control measurement established by the APSC, if a change in Mobile Gas’ O&M expense per customer falls within 1.5 percentage points above or below the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Customers (index range), no adjustment is required. If the change in O&M expense per customer exceeds the index range, three-quarters of the difference is returned to customers through future rate adjustments. To the extent the change is less than the index range, the utility benefits by one-half of the difference through future rate adjustments. The increase in O&M expenses per customer was within the index range for the rate years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006; therefore, no adjustments were required. The increase in O&M expenses per customer was below the index range for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. Under RSE, Mobile Gas could recover one-half the difference, $298,000, through a rate increase effective December 1, 2005; however, the APSC approved a waiver of this RSE requirement and instead will allow this amount to be used to offset any potential required returns to customers should O&M expense per customer exceed the index range in future years. In conjunction with the approval of RSE, the APSC approved an Enhanced Stability Reserve (ESR), beginning October 1, 2002, to which Mobile Gas may charge the full amount of: 1) extraordinary O&M expenses resulting from force majeure events such as storms, severe weather, and outages, when one such event results in more than $100,000 of additional O&M expense or a combination of two or more such events results in more than $150,000 of additional O&M expense during a fiscal year; or 2) losses of revenue from any individual industrial or commercial customer in excess of $100,000 during the fiscal year, if such losses cause Mobile Gas’ return on equity to fall below 13.35%. An initial ESR balance of $1.0 million was recorded October 1, 2002 and is being recovered from customers through rates. Subject to APSC approval, additional funding, up to a maximum reserve balance of $1.5 million, may be provided from any future non-recurring revenue should such revenue cause Mobile Gas’ return on equity for the fiscal year to exceed 13.85%. Following a year in which a charge against the ESR is made, the APSC allows for accruals to the ESR of no more than $15,000 monthly until the maximum funding level is achieved. The ESR balance of $1,000,000 at September 30, 2007 is included in the balance sheet of the Consolidated Financial Statements as part of Regulatory Liabilities. In October 2000, the Corus Group plc (Corus, formerly known as British Steel) ceased operations of its Mobile facility and continued to pay Mobile Gas a minimum annual payment as required under the terms of its contract. On July 28, 2005, Corus elected to end the contract and make a termination payment as required by the terms of the contract. Under a Termination Agreement (Termination Agreement) between Mobile Gas and Corus, Corus agreed to pay Mobile Gas $6,100,000, of which $4,750,000 was paid in fiscal year 2006, and the final payment of $1,350,000 was paid October 2, 2006. The APSC approved Mobile Gas’ request to recognize the termination payments as a regulatory liability and amortize the balance into income over the remaining seven years of the original contract term. Mobile Gas’ rates contain a temperature adjustment rider which is designed to offset the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on the Company’s operating margins. The temperature adjustment rider applies to substantially all residential and small commercial customers. The adjustment is calculated monthly for the months of November through April and prior to November 1, 2006 was applied to customers’ bills in the same billing cycle in which the weather variation occurs. Effective November 1, 2006, Mobile Gas accumulates an adjustment for the margin impact due to variances in the weather. The accumulated adjustment from one heating season (November through April) will be billed or credited to customers in subsequent periods. This mechanism reduces the variability of both customers’ bills and Mobile Gas’ earnings due to weather fluctuations. Gas deliveries to certain industrial customers are subject to regulation by the APSC through contract approval. The operations of SGT, which consist only of intrastate transportation of gas, are also regulated by the APSC. 5 Table of Contents Bay Gas is a regulated utility governed under the jurisdiction of the APSC. As a regulated utility, Bay Gas’ intrastate storage contracts are subject to APSC approval. Operation of the storage cavern and well-head equipment are subject to regulation by the Oil and Gas Board of the State of Alabama. The APSC certificated Bay Gas as an Alabama gas storage public utility in 1992. Bay Gas provides substantial, long-term services for Mobile Gas and other customers that include storage and transportation of natural gas from interstate and intrastate sources. The APSC does not regulate rates for Bay Gas’ interstate gas storage and storage-related services. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), which has jurisdiction over interstate services, allows Bay Gas to charge market-based rates for such services. Market-based rates minimize regulatory involvement in the setting of rates for storage services and allow Bay Gas to respond to market conditions. Bay Gas also provides firm and interruptible interstate transportation-only services. The FERC last issued an order on April 14, 2006 approving rates for transportation-only services. In accordance with FERC filing requirements, on March 9, 2007 Bay Gas filed a petition with the FERC requesting approval of rates for transportation-only service. Mobile Gas has been granted nonexclusive franchises to construct, maintain and operate a natural gas distribution system in the areas in which it operates. Except for the franchise granted by Mobile County, Alabama, which has no stated expiration date, the franchises have various expiration dates, the earliest of which is in 2009. The Company has no reason to believe that the franchises will not be renewed upon expiration. Seasonal Nature of Business The nature of the Company’s business is highly seasonal and temperature-sensitive. As a result, the Company’s operating results in any given period have historically reflected, in addition to other matters, the impact of weather, with colder temperatures resulting in increased sales by the Company. The substantial impact of this sensitivity to seasonal conditions has been reflected in the Company’s results of operations. As discussed above under “Rates and Regulation”, the application of a temperature rate adjustment in customers’ bills beginning in November 1996 has helped to level out the effects of temperature extremes on results of operations. Due to the seasonality of the Company’s business, the generation of working capital is impaired during the summer months because of reduced gas sales. Cash needs during this period are met generally through short-term financing arrangements or the reduction of temporary investments as is common in the industry. Environmental Issues The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, which have not had a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Like many gas distribution companies, prior to the widespread availability of natural gas, the Company manufactured gas for sale to its customers. In contrast to some other companies which operated multiple manufactured gas plants, the Company and its predecessor operated only one such plant, which discontinued operations in 1933. The process for manufacturing gas produced by-products and residuals, such as coal tar, and certain remnants of these residuals are sometimes found at former gas manufacturing sites. Based on plans for the site, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management (“ADEM”) has conducted a “Brownfield” evaluation of the property. On January 5, 2005, ADEM released a “CERCLA Targeted Brownfield Site Inspection” report on the manufactured gas plant site. Prior to the ADEM “Brownfield” evaluation, Mobile Gas engaged environmental consultants to evaluate the site in connection with the plans for the site. Based on their review, the Company recorded its best estimate of $200,000 as an expense and a remediation liability in fiscal 2004. The Company intends that, should further investigation or changes in environmental laws or regulations require material expenditures for evaluation or remediation with regard to the site, it would apply to the APSC for appropriate rate recovery of such costs. However, there can be no assurances that the APSC would approve the recovery of such costs or the amount and timing of any such recovery. 6 Table of Contents Employees Mobile Gas employed 244 full-time employees as of September 30, 2007. Of these, approximately 35% are represented by the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, Local No. 3-0541. As of September 30, 2007 Bay Gas employed 22 full-time employees. The Company believes that it enjoys generally good labor relations. Available Information The Company’s internet address is www.energysouth.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet Web site its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s financial and operating results are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within the control of management. Although key risk factors are discussed below, other risks may prove to be more important in the future. These factors include the following: Third Party Facilities: The Company is served by third party facilities. These facilities include third party natural gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Mobile Gas relies upon such facilities for access to natural gas supplies. Bay Gas relies on such facilities for access to markets for its storage services. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise could result in material adverse financial consequences to Mobile Gas, Bay Gas and/or the Company. Operations: Inherent in the gas distribution activities of Mobile Gas and the storage services provided by Bay Gas are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to the Company. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect Mobile Gas’, Bay Gas’ and/or the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory Environment: Mobile Gas’ distribution system is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) and utilizes a Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE) rate setting process. Mobile Gas’ rates, as established under RSE, allow a certain return on average equity for the period. As such, Mobile Gas is allowed to earn a return on all of its assets with no exclusions. Mobile Gas’ tariff also includes a purchased gas adjustment clause which allows it to pass on to its sales customers increases or decreases in gas costs from those reflected in its tariff charges. There is a risk that changes in the regulatory environment, including rate relief to recover increased capital and operating costs, allowed rates of return and the ability to pass on to customers the increased costs of natural gas could adversely affect the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Mobile Gas. Bay Gas’ intrastate storage operations are regulated by the APSC on a contract basis. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has jurisdiction over interstate services and allows Bay Gas to 7 Table of Contents charge market-based rates for storage services. Market-based rates minimize regulatory involvement in the setting of rates for storage services and allow Bay Gas to respond to market conditions. There is a risk that changes in the regulatory environment, such as the inability of Bay Gas to charge market based rates for storage services, could have an adverse affect on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Bay Gas. Environmental Regulation: The Company is subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to employee health and safety. Environmental legislation also requires that the Company’s facilities, sites and other properties associated with its operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose the Company to fines, penalties or interruptions in the operations of the Company that could be significant to the financial results. In addition, existing environmental regulations may be revised or the Company’s operations may become subject to new regulations. Such revised or new regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility of Natural Gas Prices: Although Mobile Gas utilizes fixed price contracts to mitigate gas supply cost risk in the near term, fluctuations in future gas supply costs could materially affect its financial position and rates to customers. Significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause Mobile Gas’ retail customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Use of Derivative Instruments: Midstream operations use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to manage commodity and financial market risks. Midstream could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts, or should a counterparty fail to perform. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Customer Concentration: Revenues and related accounts receivable from Bay Gas’ storage operations are primarily generated from the storage of natural gas for customers who provide energy related services, including natural gas-fired electric generation, natural gas distribution, and energy marketing companies. This concentration of services to the energy industry has the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the Company’s customers may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry or other conditions. Bay Gas enters into long-term contracts with customers for firm storage capacity. Four customers have contracted for approximately 97% of the current working gas storage capacity under long term contracts that expire at various dates from October 2007 to March 2018. Bay Gas’ largest customer has contracted for approximately 53% of the current working gas storage capacity which expires in March 2018. Mobile Gas Service Territory: Mobile Gas’ utility customers are geographically concentrated in southwest Alabama. Significant economic, weather, natural disaster, criminal act or other events that adversely affect this area could adversely affect Mobile Gas and the Company. Competition: In the residential and commercial customer markets, Mobile Gas’ regulated utility operations compete with other energy products. The primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. As discussed above, increases in the price of natural gas could negatively impact Mobile Gas’ competitive position by causing the customer to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Adverse economic conditions, including higher natural gas costs, could cause Mobile Gas’ industrial customers to use alternate sources of energy, such as fuel oil, coal or wood chips. Due to the close proximity of various pipelines and gas processing plants to Mobile Gas’ service area, there exists the possibility that current or prospective customers could install their own facilities and 8 Table of Contents connect directly to a supply source and thereby “bypass” Mobile Gas’ system. This potential bypass of the distribution system creates a risk of the loss of large industrial/commercial customers that could adversely affect Mobile Gas’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Bay Gas operates the easternmost high deliverability, underground salt-dome storage caverns in the Southeast region of the United States. Although Bay Gas’ storage operations currently face competition from other existing natural gas storage facilities, natural gas aggregators and natural gas pipelines, competition may increase if new infrastructure is constructed near its existing facilities. Access to Credit Markets: The natural gas distribution business and natural gas midstream businesses are capital intensive. The Company and its subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets to satisfy liquidity requirements. Adverse changes in the economy or these markets, the overall health of the industries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate and changes to the creditworthiness of the Company could limit access to these markets and/or increase the cost of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 