D. RISK FACTORS Our future revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that are likely to cause these fluctuations, some of which are outside of our control, include, without limitation, the following: • the current economic environment and other developments in the telecommunications industry; • the mix of our products sold, including inventory items with low product costs; • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in demand for and sales of our products, the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, and the general level of spending in the telecommunications industry; • our ability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity, and particularly to limit excess capacity commensurate with the volatile demand levels for our products; • our ability to successfully complete a transition to an outsourced manufacturing model; • the ability of our outsourced manufacturers to timely produce and deliver subcomponents, and possibly complete products in the quantity and of the quality we require; • competitive factors, including the introduction of new products and product enhancements by competitors and potential competitors, pricing pressures, and the competitive environment in the markets into which we sell our products, including competitors with substantially greater resources than we have; • our ability to effectively develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • the availability and cost of components for our products; • new product introductions that may result in increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter, with revenues, if any, that are not recognized until a subsequent or later quarter; and • the unpredictability of consumer demand and difficulties in meeting such demand. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating and recognizing revenue, our quarterly operating results are likely to be seriously harmed. -8- Table of Contents Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as any indication of our future performance. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 1999, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of other telecommunications companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of telecommunications-related companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technology innovations, new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; • any deviations in our net revenue or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of telecommunications-related companies. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We experience intense competition with respect to our products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, our competitors that have larger market capitalization or cash reserves are better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. -9- Table of Contents We are subject to a concentration of credit risk. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of each customer’s financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. As of December 31, 2006 and 2007, our five largest accounts receivable accounted for approximately 43% and 38% of our total accounts receivable. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries and creates significant risks. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the government, economic reform policies since 1978 have emphasized decentralization and the utilization of market mechanisms in the development of the Chinese economy. We have significantly benefited from such reforms, as the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications since 1994 has opened the telecommunications equipment market of China to all kinds of manufacturers. Our management believes that the basic principles underlying the reforms will continue to provide an acceptable framework of the PRC’s political and economic systems. In addition, we currently see no evidence that this refinement and readjustment process may adversely affect, directly or indirectly, the Company’s operations in the future. As substantially all of our operations are conducted in Mainland China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in Mainland China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi (“Rmb”) which must be converted into other currencies before remittance outside Mainland China. Both the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies abroad require the approval of the Mainland Chinese government. Our currency is not freely convertible. The State Administration for Exchange Control (“SAEC”), under the authority of the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (“CFETS”) market. Since substantially all of our raw materials are provided by local suppliers using Renminbi and the majority of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi, restrictions on currency conversions did not materially affect our operations. Also, since we do not -10- Table of Contents expect to require any raw material that are not permitted or are limited to purchase using foreign currencies, our management believes that such restriction will not materially affect our operations in the future. However, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments, and our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to restrictions on the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars and, as a result, may be restricted to make distributions to us. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage for damage to our Chinese factories. We have no direct business operation, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries located in China, and our results of operations and financial condition are currently solely dependent on our subsidiaries’ factories in China. We currently maintain fire, casualty and theft insurance covering various of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment, and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not sufficiently cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flooding or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. However, we have not materially suffered from such damage or loss to date. The discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment currently available to our PRC subsidiary, CEC Telecom Co., Ltd., could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our PRC operating subsidiary, CEC Telecom Co., Ltd. (“CECT”), was subject to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law Concerning Foreign-Invested Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises. CECT, as a foreign-invested enterprise, was generally subject to enterprise income tax at a statutory rate of 33% (30% national income tax plus 3% local income tax) through 2007 under this law and its related regulations, and 25% from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described below. However, as a “high-tech enterprise” formed in the Zhongguancun Science Park high technology zone in Beijing, CECT enjoyed preferential tax treatment through 2007. In particular, CECT was exempted from enterprise income tax from May 22, 2000 to December 31, 2002 and was entitled to preferential enterprise income tax rates of 7.5% from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 and 15% from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which law took effect as of January 1, 2008. In accordance with the new tax law, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards will be applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises such as CECT. However, certain qualifying high-technology enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the new tax law if they meet the definition of “qualifying high-technology enterprise” to be set forth in the more detailed implementing rules when they are adopted. As a result, if CECT qualifies as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise”, it will continue to benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15%. Before being qualified as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, CECT’s applicable tax rate increased from its then existing tax rate of 15% to the unified tax rate of 25% effective January 1, 2008. Regarding the implementation of the preferential treatment for “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, the -11- Table of Contents Chinese government has taken the first step in creating a mechanism to review the qualifications of “high-technology enterprise” with the issuance of “Circular 172” on April 14, 2008. This guidance, however, is not detailed enough and specifies that additional detailed guidelines will be issued. Such additional guidelines are expected to be issued within the next several months, with the actual detailed procedures being set up sometime thereafter. As a result, we expect that qualified enterprises will only receive their “High-technology Enterprise Certificate” in the second half of 2008 or sometime next year. We cannot assure you that CECT will qualify as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, and even if CECT successfully obtains this high-tech enterprise status, its preferential tax treatment may be discontinued by the tax authorities at their discretion or pursuant to any future changes in PRC tax laws, rules or regulations. Before being qualified as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, CECT is subject to a 25% rate from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described above, which significantly increases our effective tax rate and materially adversely affects our operating results. The dividends that our BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries receive from their subsidiaries in the PRC and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our foreign corporate holders of ordinary shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where our investment holding subsidiaries are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If these BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries are considered non-resident enterprises, this new 10% withholding tax imposed on their dividend income received from their PRC subsidiaries would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Under the new tax law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new tax law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if our -12- Table of Contents BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries are classified as resident enterprises, the dividends they receive from their PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from income tax. In addition, under the new tax law, foreign corporate holders of our ordinary shares may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign corporate holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the return on an investment in our ordinary shares by a foreign corporation. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising fund from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Due to lack of official interpretation, some of the terms and provisions in the SAFE notice remain unclear and implementation by central SAFE and local SAFE branches of the SAFE notice has been inconsistent since its adoption. Based on the advice of our PRC counsel and after consultation with relevant SAFE officials, we believe that our PRC resident shareholders were required to complete their respective SAFE registrations pursuant to the SAFE notice. Since our PRC resident shareholders did not complete their SAFE registrations before March 31, 2006, the local SAFE branch will not accept their applications for SAFE registration until the detailed rules concerning the penalties for those who failed to make their SAFE registrations before March 31, 2006 are implemented. However, we believe the likely penalties for failure to complete the SAFE registration will be nominal and there should be no other legal obstacles for our PRC resident shareholders to complete or amend their respective SAFE registrations with respect to the Company. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how the SAFE notice will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect -13- Table of Contents our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the SAFE notice by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the SAFE notice. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the SAFE notice, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. In addition, the National Development and Reform Commission (the “NDRC”) promulgated a rule in October 2004, or the NDRC Rule, which requires NDRC approvals for overseas investment projects made by PRC entities. The NDRC Rule also provides that approval procedures for overseas investment projects of PRC individuals shall be implemented with reference to this rule. However, there exist extensive uncertainties in terms of interpretation of the NDRC Rule with respect to its application to a PRC individual’s overseas investment, and in practice, we are not aware of any precedents that a PRC individual’s overseas investment has been approved by the NDRC or challenged by the NDRC based on the absence of NDRC approval. Our current beneficial owners who are PRC individuals did not apply for NDRC approval for investment in a subsidiary. We cannot predict how and to what extent this will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, the failure of our shareholders who are PRC individuals to comply with the NDRC Rule may subject these persons or our PRC subsidiary to certain liabilities under PRC laws, which could adversely affect our business. We depend upon certain key personnel to manage our company. Our ability to successfully carry out our business plans continues to be largely dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and executive officers, particularly our chairman, Rui Lin Wu. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wu and the loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Further, we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policy on his life. We are controlled by one of our shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Rui Lin Wu, our chief executive officer and chairman, and members of his family beneficially own or control approximately 22.0% of our outstanding shares as of July 8, 2008. Accordingly, he has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also may have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without his consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. -14- Table of Contents Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may adversely affect the amount received by U.S. shareholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon them. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or China would enforce: -15- Table of Contents • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or China, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. -16- Table of Contents ITEM 