ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Commercial Real Estate and Business Loans Expose the Company to Increased Credit Risks. At December 31, 2005, the Company's portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $2.3 billion, or 44.5% of total loans. The Company plans to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose the Company to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. The Company targets its business lending and marketing strategy towards small- to medium-sized businesses. These small- to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, the Company's results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses to Cover Loan Losses May Cause the Company's Earnings to Decrease. The Company's customers may not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. The Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. The Company makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, the Company relies on loan quality reviews, past experience and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If the assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. The Company's emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for credit losses. As the Company continues to increase the amount of such loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease earnings. Bank regulators periodically review the Company's allowance for credit losses and may require an increase to the provision for credit losses or further loan charge-offs. Any increase in the Company's allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and/or financial condition. The Concentration of Loans in the Company's Primary Market Area May Increase Risk. The Company's success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in Upstate New York. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in Upstate New York have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing those loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company's control would impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect financial results. 19 Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition. The Company's results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company's interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than its interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income. The Company has taken steps to mitigate this risk such as holding fewer longer-term residential mortgages as well as investing excess funds in shorter-term investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of interest-earning assets, and in particular investment securities available for sale. Generally, the value of investment securities fluctuate inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2005, investment securities available for sale totaled $1.6 billion. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $18.1 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. The Company's Ability to Grow May Be Limited if it Cannot Make Acquisitions. In an effort to fully deploy excess capital and to increase loans and deposits, the Company intends to continue to acquire other financial institutions, financial services companies or branches. The Company competes with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to identify and attractive acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully integrate acquired institutions in a timely and efficient manner, that it will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or that it will be successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies. The Company's Expanding Branch Network May Affect Financial Performance. Since 1998, the Company has expanded its branch network by both acquiring financial institutions and establishing de novo branches. At December 31, 2001, the Company had 37 branches, compared with 118 at December 31, 2005. In addition, during 2006, the Company expects to open up to six new branches. There can be no assurance that the Company's ongoing branch expansion strategy will be accretive to earnings, or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Numerous factors contribute to the performance of a new branch, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather sufficient loans and deposits to generate enough income to offset its expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. Strong Competition May Limit Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than the Company and may offer certain services that the Company does not or cannot provide. The Company's profitability depends upon its ability to successfully compete in its market area. The Company Operates in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. Such regulators govern the activities in which the Company may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank and the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on the Company and its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because the Company's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws rule or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or prospects. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Not applicable. 