ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Severe interest rate fluctuations could (i) have a negative impact on policyowner behavior, (ii) adversely affect our ability to pay policyowner benefits and other business expenses and (iii) negatively impact our financial condition and operations. Severe interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect the ability of our life insurance subsidiaries to pay policyowner benefits from operating and investment cash flows, cash on hand and other cash sources. We seek to limit the impact of changes in interest rates on the profitability and surplus of our life insurance operations by managing the duration of our assets relative to the duration of our liabilities. During a period of rising interest rates, policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans may increase as customers seek to achieve higher returns. Despite our efforts to reduce the impact of rising interest rates, we may be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to such surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate amortization of policy acquisition costs relating to these contracts, which would further reduce our net income. During periods of declining interest rates, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgage loans and fixed maturity securities that we own, which would force us to reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Most of our insurance and annuity products provide for guaranteed minimum yields and we are unable to lower our payouts to customers below these minimums in response to the lower return we will earn on our investments. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to maintain our desired spread between the investment income that we earn and our payouts to customers during periods of declining interest rates thereby reducing our profitability. A reduction in interest rates could also depress the market for our fixed annuity products. While policyowners may pay surrender charges to terminate policies, such terminations would reduce our future income. The sensitivity of our investments to interest rates and other market risks are discussed in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Report). Our investment portfolio is subject to risks, including market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales and profitability. The market value of our investments and our investment performance, including yields and realization of gains and losses may vary depending on economic and market conditions. Such conditions include the shape of the yield curve, the level of interest rates and recognized equity and bond indices. Investment spreads are a critical part of our net income. When spreads narrow, our operating results may be adversely affected. Rates increased in 2005 after declining in previous years. If we again experience an overall lower interest rate environment, such as that prevailing during 2003 and 2004, our net investment income could decrease. Our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may also be adversely affected from time to time by conditions affecting our specific investments and, more generally, by stock, real estate and other market fluctuations and general economic, market and political conditions. Our ability to make a profit on insurance products and annuities depends in part on the returns on investments supporting our obligations under these products and the value of specific investments may fluctuate substantially depending on the foregoing conditions. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity and other debt securities we own will default on principal and interest payments, particularly if a major downturn in economic activity occurs. The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting particular issuers or securities could also have a similar effect. We may also have difficulty selling our privately placed fixed maturity securities and mortgage loan investments because they are less liquid than our publicly traded securities. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments at attractive prices, in a timely manner, or both. 17 Table of Contents We use derivative instruments to hedge various risks we face in our businesses. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps, swap options, financial futures and call options, with a number of counterparties. If, however, our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, we will have failed to hedge the related risk effectively. Any of the above-described factors could diminish the value of our invested assets and adversely affect our sales, profitability. or the investment return credited to our customers. The composition of the Company’s investment portfolio, including the credit quality and other characteristics of the issuers of our investments, impairments and investment strategies are discussed in the section entitled “Investment Portfolio” in Part II, Item 7 of the Report. We face competition from other insurance companies, banks and non-insurance financial service companies for customers and sales agents. We compete for customers and agents and other distributors of life insurance and annuity products with a large number of other insurers and non-insurance financial service companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and mutual funds. We believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, commission structure, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, business capabilities and name recognition. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do, offer a broader array of products, are regulated differently and have more competitive pricing. Many other insurers have higher claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings than we do. National banks, with their large existing customer bases, may increasingly compete with insurers as a result of court rulings allowing national banks to sell annuity or other insurance products in some circumstances, and as a result of recently enacted legislation removing restrictions on bank affiliations with insurers. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 permits mergers that combine commercial banks, insurers and securities firms under one holding company. These developments may continue to increase our competition by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of our potential competitors who may be able to offer more competitive pricing than we can, due to economies of scale. As described in the section entitled, “Competition,” in Part I, Item 1 of the Report, we have been a market leader in equity indexed products. As more companies, including companies with higher ratings and greater resources, enter this market, our sales could decrease. If we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution channels, sales of our products and services may be reduced. We distribute our life insurance and annuity products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including our own sales organizations, independent brokers, banks, broker-dealers and other third-party marketing organizations. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our life insurance and annuity products. Our distributors are generally free to sell products from whichever provider they choose. Strong competition exists among financial services companies for effective sales representatives. We compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation and product features. If our products or services do not meet our distributors’ needs, we may not be able to establish and maintain satisfactory relationships with distributors of our annuity and life insurance products. We have been competitive because we have developed innovative new products and rapidly brought them to market. Our future competitiveness may depend on our ability to develop new products and bring them to market quickly. Our competitiveness for such agents also depends upon the relationships we develop with these agents. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete, our sales of insurance and annuity products and our revenues would suffer. Our accumulation segment products are, for example, distributed primarily through wholly-owned and proprietary marketing organizations. If customers become more receptive to other forms of distribution or if the performance of these organizations declines, our sales could decrease. Our current distribution systems are described under the heading “Distribution Systems” in each of the descriptions of our protection and accumulation segments in Part I, Item 1 of the Report. 18 Table of Contents Future downgrades in the ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries or in our credit ratings could adversely affect sales of our life insurance and annuity products and our financial condition and results of operations. Ratings with respect to claims-paying ability and financial strength are increasingly important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Each rating agency reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. Maintaining our ratings depends on our results of operations and financial strength. If we fail to preserve the strength of our balance sheet and to maintain a capital structure that rating agencies deem suitable, it could result in a downgrading of our ratings. Our claims-paying and financial strength ratings are based upon factors relevant to policyowners and are not directed toward protection of investors in our securities. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for a downgrade, of any of our life insurance subsidiaries could, among other things: • materially increase the number of policy or contract surrenders for all or a portion of their net cash values and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies; • result in the termination of our relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services; • adversely affect our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all; • reduce new sales, particularly with respect to general account guarantees and funding agreements purchased by financial institutions; and • result in higher interest rates becoming payable on outstanding loans under our existing revolving credit facility. In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various rating agencies also publish credit ratings for our company. Rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors, some of which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of our control. In addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess our financial strength, and may alter these models from time to time at their discretion. These models and formulas may include factors beyond our control such as general economic conditions. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase our cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For a listing of our current insurer financial strength ratings, see the section entitled, “Ratings” in Part I, Item 1 of the Report. Litigation and regulatory investigations may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. In recent years, the life insurance industry, including AmerUs Group Co. and our subsidiaries, has been subject to an increase in litigation pursued on behalf of purported classes of insurance purchasers, questioning the conduct of insurers in the marketing of their products. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs’ lawyers bring class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Some of these claims and legal actions are in jurisdictions where juries are given substantial latitude in assessing damages, including punitive and exemplary damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, state and federal regulatory bodies, such as state insurance departments and attorneys general, periodically make inquiries and conduct examinations concerning our compliance with insurance and other laws. We respond to such inquiries and cooperate with regulatory examinations in the ordinary course of business. Regulatory changes, interpretations, initiatives and pronouncements related to the use of insurance products in certain tax advantaged programs and 19 Table of Contents plans could lead to additional litigation against us involving alleged misrepresentations by the selling insurance agents related to the tax benefits available pursuant to such programs or plans. AmerUs Group Co. and certain of its subsidiaries are currently parties to purported class actions and other litigation described in Part I, Item 3 of the Report under the heading “Legal Proceedings.” It is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that cannot be estimated as of a balance sheet date. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees as well as agents to sell our products. Additionally, regulatory inquiries may cause increased volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. Our sales and profitability could be adversely affected by regulatory changes applicable to our indexed products. The insurance industry has treated certain indexed products as not being securities under the Securities Act of 1933. Last year, the NASD issued Notice to Members 05-50 addressing the responsibility of NASD members to supervise the sale by their associated persons of indexed annuities that are not registered under the federal securities laws and expressing concerns about the status of indexed annuities under the federal securities laws. Actions taken by the NASD members in response to the NASD’s notice could adversely impact the sale of our indexed products. Treatment of our indexed products as securities would require additional registration and licensing of these products and the agents selling them, and would likely cause us to seek additional marketing relationships for these products. Registration and associated compliance could significantly increase our costs associated with selling indexed products. Since many of our producers are not currently licensed to sell securities, our sales could be adversely affected until our producers are appropriately licensed or we make other distribution arrangements for the sale of our indexed products. In 2005, 80% of our direct protection product sales were indexed products and 91% of our accumulation product deposits were indexed products. We may be exposed to unidentifiable or unanticipated liabilities if we cannot effectively manage our operational, legal, regulatory and other risks, which could negatively affect the amounts that our subsidiaries may distribute to us as dividends. We have devoted significant resources to developing our risk management policies and procedures and we expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, these policies and procedures that identify, monitor and manage operational, legal, regulatory and other risks may not be fully effective. Many of the methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us and that may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal, regulatory and other risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. If any of our subsidiaries are exposed to unexpected liabilities or losses due to a failure of our risk management policies or procedures, its business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected, which may also reduce the amount that it can distribute to us as dividends. Examples of some of our risk management policies are described in the section entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” in Part II, Item 7 and in Part II, Item 7A of the Report. 20 Table of Contents Our insurance subsidiaries are heavily regulated, and changes in insurance, securities and other regulation in the United States may reduce our profitability. Our life insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state regulators under the insurance laws of states in which they conduct business. ALIC’s domiciliary regulator is the Iowa Insurance Division. In addition, American’s domiciliary regulator is the Kansas Insurance Department; ILIC’s domiciliary regulator is the Indiana Insurance Department; and Bankers Life’s domiciliary regulator is the New York Insurance Department. In addition to their domiciliary regulators, these insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in their non-domiciliary states in which they do business by the insurance regulators of such states. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future. The purpose of such regulation is primarily to provide safeguards for policyowners rather than to protect the interests of shareholders. The insurance laws of the various states establish regulatory agencies with broad administrative powers including the authority to grant or revoke operating licenses and to regulate sales practices, investments, privacy protection, dividend-paying capacity, advertising, affiliate transactions, deposits of securities, the form and content of financial statements and insurance policies, contract forms, rates and pricing for our products, accounting practices, admittance of assets and the maintenance of specified reserves and capital. Although the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including pension regulation, age and sex discrimination, financial services regulation and securities regulation can significantly affect the insurance business. Certain of our protection products and accumulation products are innovative and relatively new. The regulatory framework at the state and federal level applicable to such products is evolving. The changing regulatory framework could affect the design of such products and our ability to sell certain products. Our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The liability that we have established for future policy benefits is based on assumptions concerning a number of factors, including the amount of premiums that we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received, expected claims, expenses and persistency, which is the measurement of the percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year as measured by premiums. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our reserves from period to period. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. If reinsurance becomes unavailable or more costly, our profitability could suffer. As part of our risk management and capacity strategy, our insurance subsidiaries cede insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. However, we remain liable with respect to ceded insurance should any reinsurer fail to meet the obligations assumed by it. Additionally, we assume policies of other insurers. The cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in the premium rates charged by us. Under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for the reinsurance. Therefore, if the cost of reinsurance were to increase or if reinsurance were to become unavailable, we could be adversely affected. Any regulatory or other adverse development affecting the ceding insurer could also have an adverse effect on us. Market conditions beyond our control influence the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of our reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable 21 Table of Contents terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in our assuming more risk with respect to those policies we issue. As a result of consolidation of the life reinsurance market and other market factors, capacity in the life reinsurance market has decreased. Further, life reinsurance is currently available at higher prices and on less favorable terms than those prevailing between 1997 and 2003. It is likely that this trend will continue, although we cannot predict to what extent. Further consolidation, regulatory developments, catastrophic events or other significant developments affecting the pricing and availability of reinsurance could materially harm the reinsurance market and our ability to enter into reinsurance contracts. The Company’s current reinsurance practices and reinsurers (including their A.M. Best ratings) are described in the section entitled, “Reinsurance,” in Part I, Item 1 of the Report. Payment of dividends by our life insurance subsidiaries to us is regulated by state insurance laws. Payment of dividends by our life insurance subsidiaries to us is regulated by the state insurance laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation. Our significant life insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in Iowa, Kansas and Indiana. State insurance laws of each of these jurisdictions generally impose limitations on the ability of each of these subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. If any proposed dividend payment exceeds stated statutory limitations, our subsidiary must obtain the prior approval of the insurance commissioner of that state to pay that dividend amount. In addition, the amount of dividends that we actually receive from our subsidiaries depends upon their respective business and financial performance and may be less than the maximum amounts permitted under statutory limitations. If any of our life insurance subsidiaries cannot pay dividends or interest to us in the future, our ability to pay interest and dividends would be significantly reduced, which may adversely affect the trading prices of our common stock and our ability to service interest payments on our indebtedness. For descriptions of applicable state law restrictions and our dividend capacity, see the section entitled, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” in Part II, Item 7 of the Report. We may experience volatility in net income due to accounting for derivatives. We hold derivative financial instruments to hedge growth in policyowner liabilities for certain protection and accumulation products and to hedge market risk for fixed income investments. These derivatives qualify for hedge accounting or are considered economic hedges. Hedge accounting results when we designate and document the hedging relationships involving derivative instruments. Economic hedging instruments are those instruments whose change in fair value acts as a natural hedge against the change in fair value of hedged assets or liabilities with both changes wholly or partially being offset in earnings. To hedge equity market risk, we primarily use the S& P 500 Index call options to hedge the growth in interest credited to the customer as provided by our indexed products. We may also use interest rate swaps or options to manage our fixed products’ risk profile. Generally, credit default swaps are coupled with a bond to synthetically create an instrument cheaper than an equivalent investment traded in the cash market. The change in fair value for derivative financial instruments may not equal changes in values of underlying hedged assets or liabilities resulting in potential volatility in net income. The Company’s derivatives portfolio is described under the section entitled “Investment Portfolio” in Part II, Item 7 and in notes 1 and 4 of our consolidated financial statements. Changes in tax laws or their interpretation could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. Changes in tax laws or their interpretation could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. For example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term capital gains or dividends may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to shift assets into mutual funds and away from products, including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. Because the income taxes payable on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock have been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the 22 Table of Contents potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital gains. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. Additionally, the President’s Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform is currently considering wholesale changes to our tax system. Some alternatives under debate include the use of a consumption-based tax system, which might negatively impact the attractiveness of annuities and life insurance products. Estate tax reform continues to remain on Congress’s agenda. Elimination or significant reduction of the estate tax could also negatively affect sales of life insurance products. We cannot predict whether any legislation will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation would be or whether any such legislation would have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition, and results of operations. We may need to fund deficiencies in our closed blocks; assets allocated to the closed blocks benefit only the holders of closed block policies. We have established two closed blocks of policies: (a) the first on June 30, 1996 in connection with the reorganization of ALIC from a mutual company to a stock company, and (b) the second on March 31, 2000 in connection with the reorganization of ILIC from a mutual company to a stock company (collectively, the closed block). Insurance policies which had a dividend scale in effect as of each closed block establishment date were included in the closed block. The closed block was designed to give reasonable assurance to owners of insurance policies included therein that, after the reorganizations of ALIC and ILIC, assets would be available to maintain the dividend scales and interest credits in effect prior to the reorganization, if the experience underlying such scales and credits continued. The assets, including revenue therefrom, allocated to the closed block will accrue solely to the benefit of the owners of policies included in the closed block until the closed block no longer exists. Any excess of cumulative favorable experience for closed block policies over unfavorable experience will be available for distribution over time to the closed block policyowners and will not be available to us. AmerUs will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under the policies included in the closed block in accordance with their terms. Assets included in our closed block, cash flows generated by these assets and anticipated revenues from policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, AmerUs must fund the shortfall from its general funds. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose for business reasons to support dividend payments on policies in either of the closed block with our general account funds. Assets included in each closed block, cash flows generated by such assets and anticipated revenues from policies in each closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. Unless the relevant state Insurance Commissioner consents to an earlier termination, each closed block will continue to be in effect until the date on which none of the policies in that closed block remain in force. We bear the costs of operating and managing the closed block and, accordingly, such costs were not funded as part of the assets allocated to the closed block. Any increase in such costs in the future would be borne by us. The continued threat of terrorism and military actions may adversely affect our investment portfolio. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and abroad, and the military action and heightened security measures in response to that threat, may cause additional disruptions to commerce, reduced economic activity and continued volatility in markets throughout the world, which may decrease our net income, revenue and assets under management. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio, such as airline and leisure industry securities, have been adversely affected by the declines in the securities markets and economic activity caused by the terrorist attacks and the military action and heightened security measures. The effect of these events on the valuation of these investments is uncertain and there may be additional impairments. Moreover, the cost and possibly the availability, in the future, of reinsurance covering terrorist attacks for our individual life, accidental death and dismemberment and disability insurance operations are uncertain. Although our ratings have not been affected by the terrorist attacks on the United States and remain stable, over time the rating 23 Table of Contents agencies could re-examine the ratings affecting the insurance industry generally, including the ratings of our life insurance subsidiaries. In addition, declines in the securities markets and reduced commercial and economic activity may impact our assumptions in assessing the value of intangibles from prior acquisitions and the amortization patterns for deferred policy acquisition costs. In the event there is a need to change our assumptions, this may lead to a material impairment of these assets. The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised. We may experience volatility in net income due to recent changes in accounting for share-based payments. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a revision to Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Share-Based Payment,” (SFAS 123R) which is a revision of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” (SFAS 123). SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the income statement based on fair values. Pro forma disclosure of fair value information is no longer an alternative. The implementation date of the statement has been delayed and will be effective for the fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. Net income will be reduced as a result of expensing such share-based payments upon adoption of SFAS 123R. The pro forma impacts of recognizing fair value, as permitted by SFAS 123, are disclosed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. That disclosure reflects our estimate of 2005 additional expense for share-based payments of approximately $2.6 million (after-tax). The implementation of more sophisticated modeling techniques may affect this expense amount. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal controls over financial reporting. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, effective as of year-end 2004, our auditors are required to attest to certain matters relating to our control environment. We believe that our control environment is effective; however, it is possible that adverse attestations with respect to either us or other companies in the industry, or in business in general could result in a loss of investor confidence and/or impact us or the environment in which we operate. Future acquisitions that we make may result in certain risks for our business and operations. We have made a number of significant acquisitions in the past and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of our management’s attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities and the loss of key personnel and clients of acquired companies. Any intangible assets that we acquire may have a negative impact on our financial statements. In addition, the success of our future acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. We may incur significant additional indebtedness, including assuming an acquired company’s debt, in connection with a future acquisition, which may have an adverse effect on our financial ratings and results. If we finance an acquisition through the issuance of our common stock, there may be a dilution of the ownership interests represented by our common stock. Failure to effectively consummate or manage our future acquisitions may adversely affect our existing businesses and harm our operational results. 24 Table of Contents Applicable laws and our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders and other security holders might consider in their best interests. State laws and our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may delay, defer, prevent, or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders and other security holders might consider to be in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. State laws and our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may also make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our management, which may also delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. Laws of the various states where each of our significant life insurance subsidiaries is located require the prior approval of the relevant state insurance commissioner for any change of control in AmerUs and/or that subsidiary as specified under such state laws. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt, including provisions: • permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; • dividing our board of directors into three classes; • permitting our board of directors to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and • imposing advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We file various reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) which provide required business, market, financial and other information on a quarterly and annual basis. These reports are subject to review and comment by the SEC’s staff. We respond to and resolve any such comments in a timely manner. There currently are no unresolved comments on our Exchange Act filings which have been outstanding for more than 180 days at December 31, 2005. 