ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our business. The following are some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business. 9 Risks Related to Our Business Unfavorable economic conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions around the world can impact our customers and affect the general business environment in which we operate and compete. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer confidence and spending levels, employment rates, consumer credit availability, fuel and energy costs, raw materials costs, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions, interest rates, taxation and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers and changing demographic patterns. Demand for our merchandise is significantly impacted by negative trends in consumer confidence and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. Consumer purchases of apparel and accessories may decline during recessionary periods or when disposable income is lower. As a result, our sales, growth and profitability may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions at a regional or national level. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions abroad may impact our ability to meet quality and production goals. We believe that our current cash balance, cash flow from operations and availability under our Senior Credit Facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity. However, a decrease in liquidity of our customers and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Periods of economic uncertainty or volatility make it difficult to plan, budget and forecast our business. Incorrect assumptions concerning economic trends, customer requirements, distribution models, demand forecasts, interest rate trends and availability of resources may result in our failure to accurately forecast results and to achieve forecasted results or budget targets. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of revenue and cash flow at individual store locations could result in impairment charges related to our stores. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences or continued deterioration in the economic environment could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by our store locations, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment charges could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. The specialty retail industry is cyclical, and a decline in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could reduce our sales and slow our growth. The industry in which we operate is cyclical. Purchases of apparel and accessories are sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including general economic conditions and the level of disposable consumer income, the availability of consumer credit, interest rates, taxation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and demographic patterns. Because apparel and accessories generally are discretionary purchases, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as a specialty retailer. Therefore, we may not be able to grow revenues or increase profitability if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns or we decide to slow or alter our growth plans in anticipation of or in response to a decline in consumer spending. We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. We face intense competition in the specialty retail industry. We compete primarily with specialty retailers, department stores, catalog retailers and Internet businesses that engage in the sale of women’s, men’s and children’s apparel, accessories, shoes and similar merchandise. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are quality, design, customer service and price. Many of our competitors are, and many of our 10 potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, both online and in stores, may negatively impact our revenues and gross profit. In addition, a significant portion of our revenues come from our Direct channel, which is subject to intense competition. In order to retain customers and attract new customers to our website, we may have to offer promotional prices and reduced rate or free shipping offers. For our international customers online, we may also face pricing and competitive pressures as a result of import costs and currency conversion. Finally, the rapid pace of technological change may require us to incur costs to implement new systems and platforms in order to meet customer demand and to provide a desirable online shopping experience for our customers. If we are unable to gauge fashion trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. We believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: • originate and define product and fashion trends, • anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, and • translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings far in advance of their sale in our stores, our Internet websites and our catalogs. Because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the season in which merchandise will be sold, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and suboptimal merchandise selection and timing of merchandise purchases. We attempt to reduce the risks of changing fashion trends and product acceptance in part by devoting a portion of our product line to classic styles that are not significantly modified from year to year. Nevertheless, if we misjudge the market for our products or overall level of consumer demand, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe we are no longer able to offer the latest fashions or if we fail to address and respond to customer feedback or complaints. The occurrence of these events, among others, could hurt our financial results by decreasing sales. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. We rely on the experience and skills of key personnel, the loss of whom could damage our brand image and our ability to sell our merchandise. We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our chief executive officer, and other key executives and members of our creative team, who are primarily responsible for developing our strategy. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these individuals and any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss could damage our brand image. Our executive and creative teams have substantial experience and expertise in the specialty retail industry and have made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of one or more of these individuals could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our merchandise. In addition, products we develop without the guidance and direction of these key personnel may not receive the same level of acceptance. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the future. 11 Our expanded product offerings, new sales channels, new brand concepts and plans to expand internationally may not be successful, and implementation of these strategies may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. We have grown our business in recent years by expanding our product offerings and sales channels, including by marketing our crewcuts line of children’s apparel and accessories and our Madewell brand of women’s apparel, footwear and accessories. We have opened a small number of free-standing stores dedicated to men’s wear, crewcuts and “collection” items. We have recently opened stores in Canada, expanded our international shipping and are planning to further expand internationally in the future. These strategies involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including: • implementation may be delayed or may not be successful, • if our expanded product offerings and sales channels or our international growth efforts fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease, • if customers (domestic or international) do not respond to these product offerings and sales channels as anticipated, these strategies may not be profitable on a larger scale, and • implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business, increase costs and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. In addition, our new product offerings, new brand concepts, new sales channels and international expansion may be affected by, among other things, economic, demographic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and style trends. Further rollout of these strategies could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability. Our growth strategy depends on the successful execution of our efforts to grow the Direct business and expand internationally. Our current growth strategy includes international expansion through both the Direct and retail channels. We have recently opened stores in Canada and expanded our online presence to a number of countries. We plan to open stores in additional countries in the future, including locations in Asia and Europe. We do not have experience operating in these regions and we will face established competition in most of these markets. Many of these countries have different operational requirements, including but not limited to employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate and local reporting or legal requirements. Consumer tastes and trends may differ from country to country and there may be seasonal differences, which may result in lower sales and/or margins for our products. Our success internationally could also be adversely impacted by the global economy, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in diplomatic or trade relationships, political instability and foreign government regulation. In addition, as we continue to expand our overseas operations, we are subject to certain U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We must use all commercially reasonable efforts to ensure our associates and agents comply with these laws. If any of our associates or agents violate such laws we could become subject to sanctions or other penalties that could negatively affect our reputation, business and operating results. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and reduce our sales. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our websites, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Previously, we have experienced interruptions resulting from upgrades to certain of our information systems which temporarily impaired our ability to capture, process and ship customer orders, and 12 transfer product between channels. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could—especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season—result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers. Our Direct operations are a substantial part of our business. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales, increase costs and damage our brand’s reputation. Management uses information systems to support decision making and to monitor business performance. We may fail to generate accurate and complete financial and operational reports essential for making decisions at various levels of management, which could lead to decisions being made that have adverse results. Failure to adopt systematic procedures to initiate change requests, test changes, document changes, and authorize changes to systems and processes prior to deployment may result in unsuccessful changes and could disrupt our business and reduce sales. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate controls such as reconciliations, segregation of duties and verification to prevent errors or incomplete information, our ability to operate our business could be limited. If we fail to maintain the value of our brand and protect our trademarks, our sales are likely to decline. Our success depends on the value of the J.Crew brand and our corporate reputation. The J.Crew name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales. The J.Crew and Madewell trademarks and variations thereon, such as crewcuts, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We intend to continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademarks would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. Our real estate strategy may not be successful, and new store locations may fail to produce desired results, which could impact our competitive position and profitability. We expanded our store base by 29 net new stores in fiscal 2011. We are also reviewing our existing store base and identifying opportunities, where available, to renegotiate the terms of those leases. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to renew our existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations, • anticipate the impact of changing economic and demographic conditions for new and existing store locations, 13 • negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations, • hire and train qualified sales associates, • develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis, • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise, and • avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores. New stores and stores with renewed lease terms may not produce anticipated levels of revenue even though they increase our costs. As a result, our expenses as a percentage of sales would increase and our profitability would be adversely affected. Reductions in the volume of mall traffic or closing of shopping malls as a result of unfavorable economic conditions or changing demographic patterns could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. Most of our stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the malls as shopping destinations. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have adversely affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor stores and has threatened the viability of certain commercial real estate firms which operate major shopping malls. A continuation of this trend, including failure of a large commercial landlord or continued declines in the popularity of mall shopping generally among our customers, would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. Our inability to maintain or increase levels of comparable company sales, comparable store sales or Direct sales could cause our earnings to decline. If our future comparable company sales, comparable store sales or sales from our Direct channel fail to meet expectations, our earnings could decline. In addition, our results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, in the previous three fiscal years, our quarterly comparable company sales changes have ranged from an increase of 15.9% to a decrease of 5.2%, our quarterly comparable store sales changes have ranged from an increase of 16.6% to a decrease of 5.8% and sales changes in our Direct channel have ranged from an increase of 19.9% to a decrease of 5.5%. A variety of factors affect comparable company sales, comparable store sales and Direct sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable company sales, comparable store sales and Direct sales results to be materially lower than previous periods and our expectations, which could impact our ability to leverage fixes expenses, such as store rent and store asset depreciation, which may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Interruption in our foreign sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in 14 which our merchandise is produced, and acts of terrorism that might affect a manufacturer’s ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. Late delivery of products or delivery of products that do not meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers or delay timely delivery of merchandise to our stores for those items. These events could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, cause our customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, which could result in lost sales. In fiscal 2011, approximately 95% of our merchandise was sourced from foreign factories. In particular, approximately 72% of our merchandise was sourced from China, Hong Kong and Macau. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia or elsewhere. We compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. While substantially all of our foreign purchases of our products are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, the cost of our products may be affected by fluctuations in the value of relevant foreign currencies. Our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as political instability, economic conditions, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to manufacture our products or other fluctuations in sourcing costs could increase our costs and hurt our profitability. The raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. In addition, our sourcing costs may also fluctuate due to labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, energy prices, currency fluctuations or other unpredictable factors. For example, we have experienced fluctuations in the price of cotton that is used to manufacture some of our merchandise. In addition, the cost of labor at many of our third-party manufacturers and the cost of transportation have been increasing and it is unlikely that such cost pressures will abate. We believe that we have strong vendor relationships and we are working with our suppliers to manage cost increases. Our overall profitability depends, in part, on the success of our ability to mitigate rising costs or shortages of raw materials used to manufacture our products. Any significant interruption in the operations of our customer call, order fulfillment and distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to process customer orders and to deliver our merchandise in a timely manner. Our Direct order fulfillment operations are housed in a single facility along with one of our customer call centers, while distribution operations for our stores are housed in another single facility. Although we maintain back-up systems for these facilities, they may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of these facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems we use or other events. In addition, we have upgraded certain Direct channel systems, including our web platform, order management system and warehouse management system in order to support recent and expected future growth. We experienced some interruptions in the past in connection with our Direct channel systems and while we made progress in stabilizing these systems, there can be no assurance that future interruptions will not occur. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage our transition to utilizing the expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. 15 Third party failure to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and to customers or a disruption or adverse condition affecting our distribution centers could result in lost sales or reduced demand for our merchandise. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution facilities, and the success of our Direct channel depends on the timely delivery of merchandise to our customers. Independent third-party transportation companies deliver our merchandise to our stores and to our customers. Some of these third parties employ personnel represented by labor unions. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand, increased logistics costs and excess inventory. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income. Inability to recover from a business interruption and return to normal operations within a reasonable period of time could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and damage our brand reputation. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on apparel and accessories could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. We source our merchandise through buying agents and by purchasing directly from trading companies and manufacturers, predominately in various foreign countries. There are quotas and trade restrictions on certain categories of goods and apparel from China and countries which are not subject to the World Trade Organization Agreement which could have a significant impact on our sourcing patterns in the future. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on our sourcing from certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products we purchase. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts or enhanced security measures at U.S. ports could increase the cost, delay shipping or reduce the supply of apparel available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our profitability. If our independent manufacturers do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, the J.Crew brand name could be harmed due to negative publicity. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines, as outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, promote ethical business practices and we, along with third parties that we retain for this purpose, monitor compliance with those guidelines, we do not control our independent manufacturers. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their compliance with our guidelines. Our Vendor Code of Conduct is designed to ensure that each of our suppliers’ operations is conducted in a legal, ethical, and responsible manner. Our Vendor Code of Conduct requires that each of our suppliers operates in compliance with applicable wage benefit, working hours and other local laws, and forbids the use of practices such as child labor or forced labor. Violation of labor or other laws by our independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could diminish the value of the J.Crew brand and reduce demand for our merchandise if, as a result of such violation, we were to attract negative publicity. 16 We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices, incur increased costs or harm our reputation if we do not comply. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, general privacy, health information privacy, identity theft, online privacy, unsolicited commercial communication and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. If these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, associates, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. Failure to protect personally identifiable information of our customers or associates could subject us to considerable reputational harm as well as significant fines, penalties and sanctions. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Failure to define clear roles and responsibilities or to regularly communicate with and train our associates may result in noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Fluctuations in our results of operations for the fourth fiscal quarter would have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues are generally lower during the first and second fiscal quarters. In addition, any factors that harm our fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak shopping season, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak shopping season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. Additional unplanned decreases in demand for our products could produce further reductions to our net sales and gross profit. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings and of catalog mailings and the revenues contributed by new stores, merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. Impairment of our goodwill or our intangible assets could negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity. A substantial portion of our total assets consists of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized, but are tested for impairment at least annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of our net assets is less than its carrying amount. Testing for impairment involves an estimation of the fair value of our net assets and other factors and involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of our net assets to fall below its carrying amount, including those described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. If we have an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets, the amount of any impairment could be significant and could negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity for the period in which the impairment charge is recorded. 17 We are, and may continue to be in the future, a party to legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business. We, along with certain of our officers, directors, corporate entities and Sponsors were named as defendants in purported class action lawsuits brought by certain stockholders challenging the Acquisition. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” On December 14, 2011 a settlement was approved in the Delaware Court of Chancery which releases all claims that were asserted or could have been asserted in the Delaware Action. We are continuing to work on resolution of the New York Actions and the Federal Actions, as discussed more fully in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” From time to time, we are a party to other legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, there are an increasing number of cases being filed in the retail industry generally that contain class action allegations, such as those relating to privacy and wage and hour laws. We evaluate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish reserves for the estimated liabilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations or predictions and accompanying changes in established reserves, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Certain Other Obligations Our substantial indebtedness and lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and make strategic acquisitions, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We are highly leveraged. Our total indebtedness, as of January 28, 2012 was $1,594 million, consisting of borrowings under our Term Loan Facility of $1,194 million and $400 million of outstanding Notes. We can also borrow up to $250 million under our ABL Facility, subject to a borrowing base limitation. Our Senior Credit Facilities also allow an aggregate of $350 million in uncommitted incremental facilities, the availability of which is subject to our meeting certain conditions, including, in the case of $200 million of incremental term facilities, a pro forma total senior secured leverage ratio of less than or equal to 3.75 to 1.00. No incremental facilities are currently in effect. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Facilities and Indenture.” We also have, and will continue to have, significant lease obligations. As of January 28, 2012, our minimum annual rental obligations under long-term operating leases for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 are $110 million and $113 million, respectively. Our high degree of leverage and significant lease obligations could have important consequences for our creditors, including holders of our Notes. For example, they could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; • increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as the borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities will be at variable rates of interest; 18 • make it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; and • require a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities. Our cash interest expense for pro forma fiscal 2011 was $91.7 million. Despite current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. The terms of the indenture governing our Notes and the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities permit us to incur a substantial amount of additional debt, including secured debt. Any additional borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities, and any other secured debt, would be effectively senior to the Notes and the guarantees thereto to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the risks that we now face as a result of our leverage would intensify and could have a negative impact on our credit rating. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Facilities and Indenture.” Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our, our immediate parent’s (solely with respect to the Senior Credit Facilities) and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, materially change our business, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, or merge or consolidate with or into, another company. In addition, the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility requires us to satisfy a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio if our excess availability falls below a certain threshold. Our ability to satisfy these financial tests and ratios may be affected by events outside of our control. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Senior Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our Senior Credit Facilities. If the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our Senior Credit Facilities, as well as our other secured and unsecured indebtedness, including our outstanding Notes. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This ability is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our Senior Credit Facilities, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In any such circumstance, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our 19 indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facilities and the notes, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facilities and the Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments. Any such action, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our Senior Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Senior Credit Facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under the credit agreements governing our Senior Credit Facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Senior Credit Facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our Senior Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income and cash flow, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. If LIBOR increases above 1.25%, a 0.125% increase in the floating rate applicable to the $1,194 million outstanding under the Term Loan Facility would result in a $1.5 million increase in our annual interest expense. Assuming all revolving loans are drawn under the $250 million ABL Facility, a 0.125% change in the floating rate would result in a $0.3 million change in our annual interest expense. Although we have entered into interest rate cap and swap agreements to hedge the variability of cash flows related to our floating rate indebtedness these measures may not fully mitigate our risk or may not be effective. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 