ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a large investment in fulfillment and computer technology equipment as well as long term building leases. A severe or prolonged economic downturn affecting our customers’ unit volume sales could negatively impact our operating results. The overall economy experienced a downturn in the later part of 2008, and while some of our client’s volumes have returned to pre-2009 levels, there is still substantial uncertainty as to the sustainability of the recovery. Innotrac provides sufficient capacity in its fulfillment operations and electronic data processing systems to allow new clients to be developed, support growth in our existing customers’ business and service all customers during seasonal volume increases. The investment in that capacity can result in an underutilization in our invested assets during a significant or prolonged economic downturn. We recently entered into a long-term lease agreement for a facility in Groveport, Ohio, and we may be unable to attract sufficient new business to fully utilize the capacity of the new facility. Furthermore, we lease our buildings with lease terms long enough to secure competitive lease rates, but which expose us to the term of the real property leases limiting our flexibility to reduce fixed capacity for periods of economic downturns. We service varied client business lines and industry verticals which provide some level of protection for such downturns. Our ability to maintain or achieve improved operating results could be partially effected by a significant multi-vertical economic downtown or the speed and strength of recovery from an economic downturn. We rely on a small number of large clients. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, or if we experience unanticipated costs implementing systems and ramping up our services for new clients, our business could be adversely affected. Innotrac focuses on developing long-term contractual relationships with large corporations. A relatively small number of our clients account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our ten largest clients accounted for 76.7% of our revenue in 2011. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one of these large clients is lost, or revenues from our largest clients decline, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to replace or supplement that client with others that generate comparable revenues or profits. Although we believe growth of our existing client base, improvement in the economic climate and continued productivity improvement would partially offset the impact of losing a large client, our future operating results would rely heavily on our ability to sell new business. Such projected new business may not develop and the future loss of any other large account could adversely affect our future results. Noncompliance with any of the covenants under our revolving Credit Facility would allow our lender to declare any outstanding amounts to be immediately due and payable. Our Credit Facility contains financial, change of ownership control and other restrictive covenants. Noncompliance with any of the covenants would allow the lender to declare any outstanding borrowed amounts to be immediately due and payable. From time to time in the past, we have violated various restrictive covenants, and have been obligated to obtain waivers or amendments from the lender. We were in compliance with all financial covenants and other reporting requirements of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011 and March 30, 2012. If our operating results in the future result in our inability to comply with the existing covenants and we were unable to obtain an amendment, our credit ratings could be negatively affected impairing our ability to finance our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Our written contracts generally do not guarantee specific volume levels and can usually be terminated on little notice. Although we have written agreements with most of our clients, our agreements generally do not assure specific volume or revenue levels. In addition, some agreements provide for termination for any reason on short notice. Furthermore, we are contractually bound to our facility leases until their terms expire. If a client terminates its contract suddenly, we may still have obligations under our leases. 9 If we are not able to keep pace with changing technology, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to: ● integrate new clients in a timely and cost efficient manner; ● enhance existing services; ● develop applications to meet our clients’ needs; and ● introduce new services and products to respond to technological developments. If we fail to maintain our technological capabilities or respond effectively to technological changes, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to meet our clients’ needs and maintain competitiveness. Our Reno system, which provides service to several of our clients, is completely customized and therefore not supported by third party providers. We are heavily reliant on a small number of developers. If these developers leave, it could materially adversely affect our business. We provide details about our technology in “Business - Technology” in Item 1. Our industry is extremely competitive resulting in downward pressure on our pricing. If we cannot continue to improve our operating efficiencies, our business could be materially adversely affected. Although we continually work to improve our operating efficiencies and control selling general and administrative costs, the weak general economic conditions which began in late 2008 have increased competitive pressures on pricing in the industry. These pressures could affect our ability to retain current customers and attract new business. If we fail to offset pricing pressures with reductions in operating costs, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our common stock lacks liquidity and is held by a small number of investors, one of which is in receivership where its creditors would like to sell our shares as soon as possible. As of December 31, 2011, Innotrac officers and directors owned approximately 47.7%% of the outstanding common stock and an institutional shareholder, IPOF Fund, L.P., and its affiliates held approximately 33.2%. These ownership positions have resulted in a lack of liquidity in our common stock. Additionally, if any of Innotrac’s significant shareholders decided to liquidate its or their position, our common stock price would likely decline materially. The United States District Court in Cleveland, Ohio has appointed a receiver to identify and administer the assets of the IPOF Fund, L.P. and its general partner, Mr. David Dadante. Based on information from the receiver, the Company understands that the Fund and Mr. Dadante own 4,321,777 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 33.2%% of the total shares outstanding, all of which are held as collateral in margin accounts maintained at several financial institutions. The Federal Court has indefinitely restricted the financial institutions holding Company stock owned by the IPOF Fund and Mr. Dadante in margin accounts from selling any of these shares. The court has permitted open market sales by the receiver as he may in his sole discretion determine to be consistent with his duty to maximize the value of the assets of IPOF Fund, and as warranted by market conditions. The receiver has indicated to the Company that he does not intend to direct any open market sales except in circumstances in which he believes that there would be no material adverse impact on the market price for the Company’s shares. Nevertheless, as long as these shares are held in margin accounts where the lenders desire to liquidate the positions, there will be significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock because the market is concerned that these shares may be sold in a manner that causes the price of our common stock to decline precipitously. This concern is ameliorated to some degree by the prohibition by the Federal Court for an indefinite period on sales of our shares by financial institutions that hold the shares in margin accounts. The Company has engaged in discussions from time to time with the receiver in an effort to cause the shares to be sold in a manner that causes as little disruption to the market for Company stock as possible. If the Federal Court were to not continue this prohibition before the shares have been sold in such a transaction, then the financial institutions might foreclose on some or all of these shares and sell them into the market, which could have an extremely negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 10 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), we are not required to provide the information required by this item. 