Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Changes in economic conditions, in particular a continued economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, could hurt the Company’s business materially. The Company’s business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond its control. Deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, and surrounding areas, could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt the Company’s business materially: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for its products and services may decline; • low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Company’s existing loans. A large percentage of the Company’s loans are collateralized by real estate, including its construction loans, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect its profitability. A majority of the Company’s loan portfolio is comprised of loans at least partially collateralized by real estate; a substantial portion of this real estate collateral is located in the Chicago market. As of December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans, where a portion of the collateral consists of real estate, totaled $1.2 billion, or 47.0% of its total loan portfolio, and construction loans, including land acquisition and development loans, totaled an additional $411.1 million, or 16.4% of its total loan portfolio. Based on source of re-payment, as of December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans totaled $729.7 million, or 29.1% of the Company’s total loan portfolio, and construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled an additional $366.2 million, or 14.6% of its total loan portfolio. An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in the Chicago market specifically could significantly impair the value of the Company’s collateral and its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loans. As a result, the Company’s profitability could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. Construction and land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds may be advanced based upon values associated with the completed project, which is uncertain. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If the Company’s appraisal of the anticipated value of the completed project proves to be overstated, the Company may have inadequate security for the loan. 27 Table of Contents The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its results of operations or its financial condition. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, which are based in part on: • current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; • an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance; • management’s internal review of the loan portfolio; and • results of examinations of its loan portfolio by regulatory agencies. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover probable incurred loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than experienced historically. In determining the amount of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, experience, and evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions and analysis prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient. In addition, adjustments may be necessary to allow for unexpected volatility or deterioration in the local or national economy or other factors such as changes in interest rates that may be beyond its control. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review its allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the Company’s loan allowance or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. In 2008, the Company charged off $11.6 million of loan balances related to the previously announced Large Problem Credit, reduced outstanding balances on these loans by a net $5.7 million through the sale of assets, and took title to a substantial piece of real estate previously serving as collateral at an estimated net realizable value of $5.3 million. At December 31, 2008, total outstanding loan balances related to the Large Problem Credit represented $6.1 million, or 10.0%, of nonaccrual loans. While the current carrying value of these loans at December 31, 2008 reflects management’s best current estimate of net realizable value, there can be no assurance that additional losses will not be recognized or that such additional losses would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or its financial condition. The Company’s nonperforming assets, which consist of nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets, may also impact the sufficiency of the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Nonperforming assets totaled $84.1 million as of December 31, 2008, an increase of $32.7 million, or 63.7%, from $51.4 million at December 31, 2007. In addition to those loans currently identified and classified as nonperforming loans, management is aware that other possible credit problems may exist with some borrowers. These include loans that are migrating from grades with lower risk of loss probabilities into grades with higher risk of loss probabilities as performance and potential repayment issues surface. The Company monitors these loans and adjusts loss rates in its allowance for loan losses accordingly. The most severe of these loans are credits that are classified as substandard assets due to either less than satisfactory performance history, lack of borrower’s paying capacity, or inadequate collateral. While the Company attempts to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, the Company may not be able to economically hedge its interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect its net interest income and results of operations. The Company’s net income depends primarily upon its net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, 28 Table of Contents investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors, including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the level of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds required to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. That means either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce the Company’s net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond its control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Based on its net interest income simulation model, if market interest rates were to increase immediately by 100 or 200 basis points (a parallel and immediate shift of the yield curve) net interest income would be expected to increase by 3.7% and 8.2%, respectively, from what it would be if rates were to remain at December 31, 2008 levels. The actual amount of any increase or decrease may be higher or lower than that predicted by the Company’s simulation model. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. As result of current market conditions, the Company’s net interest income simulation model did not test the effects of 1.0% and 2.0% decreases in market interest rates at December 31, 2008 as those decreases would result in some deposit interest rate assumptions falling below zero. Nonetheless, the Company’s net interest income could decline in those scenarios as yields on earning assets could continue to adjust downward. Although the Company is seeking to mitigate this risk by instituting interest rate floors into its variable-rate loan products, continuation of the existing interest rate environment, featuring an historically low absolute level of market rates of interest, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company attempts to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. The Company continually reviews its interest rate risk position and modifies its strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. The Company also uses financial instruments with optionality to modify its exposure to changes in interest rates. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial performance. Conditions in the financial markets may limit the Company’s access to additional funding to meet its liquidity needs. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans, the capital markets and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired by factors that affect it specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against it. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the deterioration in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. The Bank derives liquidity through core deposit growth, maturity of money market investments, and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. Additionally, the Bank has access to financial market borrowing sources on an unsecured, and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, 29 Table of Contents the Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Banks; the Bank is a member of both. If these funding sources are not sufficient, the Company may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources. The Company’s cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. The Bank has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. Historically and in comparison to commercial banking averages, the Bank has had a higher percentage of its time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more and brokered certificates of deposit. Within the banking industry, the amounts of such deposits are generally considered more likely to fluctuate than deposits of smaller denominations. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at the Bank decrease relative to its overall banking operations, the Bank may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. Changes in the mix of the Company’s funding sources could have an adverse effect on its income. Almost 35.2% of the Company’s funding sources are in lower-rate transactional deposit accounts. Market rate increases or competitive pricing could heighten the risk of moving to higher-rate funding sources, which would cause an adverse impact on its net income. The Company is party to loan agreements that require it to observe certain covenants that limit its flexibility in operating its business. The Company currently has a $25.0 million short-term revolving line of credit and $55.0 million term note with a single lender. As of December 31, 2008, $8.6 million was outstanding under the revolving line of credit and $55.0 million was outstanding under the term loan. These loans are secured by the stock of the Bank. The Company is obligated to meet certain covenants under the loan agreement relating to these loans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the loan agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, all amounts outstanding under loan agreements could become immediately due and payable and our lender could terminate all commitments to extend further credit. The lender also could, at their option, increase the interest rate on those loans by 300 basis points. If the Company is unable to repay those amounts, the lender could proceed against the collateral granted to it to secure that indebtedness. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to make the payments when due. The revolving line of credit matures on April 3, 2009 and the term loan matures on September 28, 2010. Neither loan agreement includes a commitment to refinance the remaining outstanding balance of the loans when they mature and there is no guarantee that the lender will renew its loans on the maturity dates. Refusal to provide renewals or refinancing opportunities would cause the Company’s indebtedness to become immediately due and payable upon the contractual maturity of such indebtedness. If we fail to meet our payment obligations under the loan agreements, such failure will constitute an event of default. When an event of default occurs, the lender, may among other remedies, (1) cease permitting us to borrow further under the line of credit, (2) terminate any outstanding commitment and (3) seize the outstanding shares of the Bank’s capital stock held by the Company which have been pledged as collateral for borrowings under the loan agreements. If the lender were to take one or more of these actions, it could have a material adverse affect on our reputation, operations and ability to continue as a going concern, and you could lose your investment in the securities. If the Company is unable to renew, replace or expand our sources of financing on acceptable terms, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations and its ability to make distributions to stockholders. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive, and any holders of preferred stock that is currently outstanding and that we may issue in the future may receive, a distribution of the available assets prior to holders of common stock. The decisions by investors and lenders to enter into equity and financing transactions with us will depend upon a number of factors, including our historical and projected financial performance, compliance with the terms of our current loan arrangements, 30 Table of Contents industry and market trends, the availability of capital and our investors’ and lenders’ policies and rates applicable thereto, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise sufficient capital to pay the loans in full by the maturity dates. In the event the correspondent bank declares the Company to be in default of any covenants, the Company has 30 days to cure the default, or the lender could, at its option, call the term note and any amounts outstanding on the revolving line of credit due and payable or increase the rate on those loans by 300 basis points. As a result of the effects of recent economic conditions, the increase in nonperforming assets, and the impairment charges on goodwill and the FNMA and FHLMC preferred securities, the Company sought covenant waivers on two occasions since December 31, 2007. First, the lender waived a covenant violation in the first quarter of 2008 resulting from the Company’s net loss recognized in that period. Second, the lender waived a covenant violation in the third quarter of 2008 resulting from the Company’s net loss recognized in that period, contingent upon the Company making accelerated principal payments under the aforementioned term loan agreement in the amounts and on or prior to the dates shown below: July 1, 2009 — $5.0 million October 1, 2009 — $5.0 million January 4, 2010 — $5.0 million Previously, no principal payments were due under the term loan agreement until the final maturity date of September 28, 2010. The waiver further provides that if the Company raises $15.0 million in new capital pursuant to an offering of common or convertible preferred stock, then the Company shall not be obligated to make any of the accelerated principal payments specified above that fall due after the date on which the Company receives such $15.0 million in new capital until the final maturity date of September 28, 2010. The Company has the capacity to satisfy all payment obligations outlined above. The Company was in compliance with the debt covenants at December 31, 2008. The Bank will only be able to pay dividends on common stock in 2009 upon receipt of regulatory approval. The Company’s annual debt service currently includes approximate $6.2 million in annual interest expense related to its debt and trust preferred securities and $7.6 million in annual dividend obligations on the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock and Series T Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $43.5 million in cash on hand. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends, the Company may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on its Series A Preferred Stock (and, therefore, its Series A depository shares), Series T Preferred Stock, or its common stock. Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. The Company’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and the Company could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. Concern of the Company’s customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs, net income, and liquidity. 31 Table of Contents The Company’s deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted its rule, uniformly increasing the risk-based assessment rates by seven basis points, annually, resulting in a range of risk-based assessment of 12 basis points to 50 basis points. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC board agreed to impose an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points on all banks to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund to an acceptable level. The assessment, which will be payable on September 30, 2009, is in addition to a planned increase in premiums and a change in the way regular premiums are assessed, which the board also approved on that date. This emergency special assessment for the Company is projected to be $5.0 million based on December 31, 2008 data. Defaults by another financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Company interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The widespread effect of falling housing prices on financial markets could adversely affect the Company’s profitability, liquidity, and financial condition. Turmoil in the financial markets, precipitated by falling housing prices and rising delinquencies and foreclosures, has negatively impacted the valuation of securities supported by real estate collateral, including certain securities owned by the Company. The Company relies on its investment securities portfolio as a source of net interest income and as a means to manage its funding and liquidity needs. If defaults in the underlying collateral are such that the security can no longer meet its debt service requirements, the Company’s net interest income, cash flows, and capital will be reduced. 32 Table of Contents The value of securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. If the Company is required to write down goodwill or other intangible assets or if it is required to mark-to-market certain of its assets or reduce its deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance, its financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. When the Company acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were approximately $93.5 million. Under generally accepted accounting principles, if the Company determines that the carrying value of its goodwill or intangible assets is impaired, the Company is required to write down the value of these assets. The Company conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are impaired. The Company’s goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment as of September 30th of each year. This review in 2008 was conducted with the assistance of a third party valuation specialist. In conducting the review, the market value of the Company’s common stock, estimated control premiums, projected cash flow and various pricing analyses are all taken into consideration to determine if the fair value of the assets and liabilities in its business exceed their carrying amounts. On September 30, 2008, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $80.0 million. This goodwill impairment charge was not tax deductible, did not impact its tangible equity or regulatory capital ratios, and did not adversely affect its overall liquidity position. It is classified as a noninterest expense item. Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill must be tested for impairment annually and, under certain circumstances, at intervening interim dates. A goodwill impairment test also could be triggered between annual testing dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying amount. Examples of those events or circumstances would include the following: • Significant adverse change in business climate; • Significant unanticipated loss of clients/assets under management; • Unanticipated loss of key personnel; • Sustained periods of poor investment performance; • Significant loss of deposits or loans; • Significant reductions in profitability; or • Significant changes in loan credit quality. The Company does not believe that any new events or changes in circumstance have occurred since September 30, 2008 (the date of our most recent annual test and resulting impairment recognition) that would require an interim impairment analysis to be conducted as of December 31, 2008. Management will continue to assess any shortfall in the Company’s market capitalization relative to its total book value and tangible book value, which management currently attributes to both industry-wide and Company-specific factors, and to evaluate whether any additional adjustments are required in the carrying value of goodwill. If the Company’s common stock 33 Table of Contents continues to trade at a price below book value, the Company may be required in a future period to recognize an impairment of all, or some portion, of its remaining goodwill. The Company cannot assure that it will not be required to take additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its stockholders’ equity and financial results. If an impairment charge is significant enough to result in negative net income for the period, it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and its ability to pay dividends to stockholders. If the Company decides to sell a loan or a portfolio of loans it is required to classify those loans as held for sale, which requires it to carry such loans at the lower of cost or market. If it decides to sell loans at a time when the fair market value of those loans is less than their carrying value, the adjustment will result in a loss. The Company may from time to time decide to sell particular loans or groups of loans, for example to resolve classified loans, and the required adjustment could negatively affect its financial condition or results of operations. The Company is required, under generally accepted accounting principles, to assess the need for a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, the Company would be required to reduce its deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance and increase income tax expense. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s net deferred tax asset was $56.5 million. If the Company’s investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is other than temporarily impaired, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired. The Bank owns common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago, FHLBC. The common stock is held to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBC’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of the Company’s FHLBC common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $19.0 million based on its par value. There is no market for the FHLBC common stock. On October 10, 2007, the FHLBC entered into a consensual cease and desist order with the Federal Housing Finance Board, now known as the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the FHFA. Under the terms of the order, capital stock repurchases and redemptions, including redemptions upon membership withdrawal or other termination, are prohibited unless the FHLBC receives the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Supervision of the FHFA, the Director. The order also provides that dividend declarations are subject to the prior written approval of the Director and required the FHLBC to submit a capital structure plan to the FHFA. The FHLBC has not declared any dividends since the order was issued and it has not received approval of a capital structure plan. In July of 2008, the FHFA amended the order to permit the FHLBC to repurchase or redeem newly-issued capital stock to support new advances, subject to certain conditions set forth in the order. The Company’s FHLBC common stock is not newly-issued and is not affected by this amendment. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System could have materially lower regulatory capital levels due to the application of certain accounting rules and asset quality issues. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBC, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. The Company’s FHLBC common stock is accounted for in accordance with the AICPS Statement of Position (“SOP”) No. 01-6, Accounting by Certain Entities that Lend to or Finance the Activities of Others. SOP 01-6 provides that, for impairment testing purposes, the value of long term investments such as FHLBC common stock is based on the “ultimate recoverability” of the par value of the security without regard to temporary declines in value. Consequently, if events occur that give rise to substantial doubt about the ultimate recoverability of the par value of the Companys’ FHLBC common stock, this investment could be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, and the impairment loss that we would be required to record would cause our earnings to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment loss. 34 Table of Contents As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of the Company’s operations through its subsidiaries, its ability to pay dividends, repurchase its shares, or to repay its indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the bank holding company as well as the results of operations of the Company’s subsidiaries; the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to other restrictions. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. The Company’s net income depends primarily upon its net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Most of the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make payments on its debt securities come from amounts paid to it by the Bank. Under applicable banking law, the total dividends declared in any calendar year by the Bank may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve exceed the aggregate of the Bank’s net profits and retained net profits for the preceding two years. The Bank is also subject to limits on dividends under the Illinois Banking Act. The Bank will not be able to pay dividends to the Company in 2009 without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. If, in the opinion of the federal bank regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the depository institution, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require that the bank cease and desist from the practice. The Federal Reserve has similar authority with respect to bank holding companies. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Finally, these regulatory authorities have established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by a bank, bank holding company or savings association under their jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in these guidelines could limit the amount of dividends that the Company and its affiliates may pay in the future. Under the terms of junior subordinated debentures the Company has issued, it has agreed not to declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of its common stock or preferred stock if, at that time, there is a default under the junior subordinated debentures or a related guarantee or it has delayed interest payments on the securities issued under the junior indenture. The Company’s outstanding Series A and Series T preferred stock has preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of the Company’s assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in the Company. Under the terms of the Company’s agreement with the U.S. Treasury, for so long as any Series T preferred stock remains outstanding, the Company is prohibited from paying dividends on its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series T preferred stock to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the Series T preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including its common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. 35 Table of Contents The Company may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. To the extent the Company continues to expand its operations, the Company will be required to support the growth in its operations by increasing its capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside its control, and on its financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to it. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on its growth. These restrictions could negatively impact the Company’s ability to further expand its operations and may result in significant increases in its operating expenses or decreases in its revenues. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state tax laws. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal or state tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations. In this regard, recent changes in Illinois laws may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Under current tax law, the Company enjoyed favorable tax treatment with respect to the dividends it received from Midwest Funding, L.L.C., a captive real estate investment trust, or a REIT. A change in Illinois tax law relating to the deductibility of captive REIT dividends eliminated this tax benefit beginning January 1, 2009, and is likely to increase the Company’s effective tax rate beginning in that year. In addition, in connection with the determination of the Company’s provision for income and other taxes and during the preparation of its tax returns, management makes certain judgments based upon reasonable interpretations of tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations which are inherently complex. Management’s interpretations are subject to challenge upon audit by the tax authorities, which have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, including certain positions that it has taken. If the Company is not successful in defending the tax positions that it has taken, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing, or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions or breach in security could result in a loss of customer business, costly remedial actions, or legal liabilities and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of the Company’s information systems, there 36 Table of Contents can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, the Company outsources a portion of its data processing to a third party. If our third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party’s technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which it operates. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines, are increasing the Company’s costs of doing business and, as a result, may create an advantage for its competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. In addition, future regulatory changes, including changes to regulatory capital requirements, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future results. In addition, the federal and state bank regulatory authorities who supervise the Company have broad discretionary powers to take enforcement actions against banks for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, it could become subject to enforcement actions that have a material adverse effect on its future results. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, EESA, was enacted. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, TLG Program, which we did not “opt-out” of. However, there can be no assurance that we will issue any guaranteed debt under the TLG Program, or that we will participate in any other stabilization programs in the future. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial 37 Table of Contents institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. On February 17, 2009, President Barack Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package. ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposes new executive compensation and corporate governance limits on current and future participants in TARP, including the Company, which are in addition to those previously announced by U.S. Treasury. The new limits remain in place until the participant has redeemed the preferred stock sold to U.S. Treasury, which is now permitted under ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to U.S. Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate federal regulator. There can also be no assurance as to the actual impact that the EESA, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA and the ARRA are relatively new legislation and, as such, is subject to change and evolving interpretation. This is particularly true given the change in administration that occurred on January 20, 2009. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its highest performing employees. The ARRA imposes new executive compensation limits on current and future participants in TARP, including the Company, which are in addition to those previously announced by U.S. Treasury. The ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company’s proxy statement, imposes restrictions on severance payments to the ten highest paid employees, and requires the repayment of bonuses in certain circumstances by the 25 highest paid employees. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the final regulations issued under the ARRA, it is possible that the Company may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits it to retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to our performance of our fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to us, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for our products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 38 Table of Contents The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures and is insured for these situations, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Non-Compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or Other Laws and Regulations Could Result in Fines or Sanctions, and Curtail Expansion Opportunities Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. We have developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. Provisions in the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company by a third party. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire the Company without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of the Company’s governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that some or many of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 39 Table of Contents 