ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. Risk Due to Economic Conditions Due to Changes in Interest Rates The well-publicized downturn in the housing market and the related crisis in subprime mortgage lending have impacted the economy in myriad ways, including: · slowdown in construction, both residential and commercial, including construction lending · slowdown in job growth · tightening of credit markets · dampening of consumer confidence and spending Financial institutions have been directly impacted by: · slowdown in overall economic growth · write-offs of mortgage backed securities · tightening of credit standards for business and consumers · tightening of available credit for bank holding companies for financing growth Responding to economic sluggishness and recession concerns, the Federal Reserve Board, through its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), began cutting the target federal funds rate in September 2007 with a 50 basis point reduction. This was followed by 25 basis point cuts in October and December and, in an unprecedented move, a 75 basis point reduction on January 22, 2008, between FOMC meetings. At the scheduled January 30, 2008 meeting, the Fed made an additional cut of 50 basis points and followed with a 75 basis point cut at the March 18, 2008 meeting. In all, these cuts in the target federal funds rate resulted in a reduction in the prime rate banks charge to their best customers from 8.25% to 5.25%. The actions of the Federal Reserve, while designed to help the economy overall, may negatively impact in the short term the Bank’s earnings. Potentially lower earnings, combined with continued uncertainty in the credit markets, may also impact the Bank’s ability to raise capital and maintain required capital ratios. Risk Due to Economic Conditions in the Regions the Company Serves The Company serves three primary regions. The Tri-Counties region which consists of San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and Ventura counties in the state of California, the SBA Western Region where CWB originates SBA loans (Arizona, California, Colorado, Oregon and Washington) and the SBA Southeast Region (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, North and South Carolina and Tennessee). A downturn in the National economy or in any of the markets the Company services may have a negative impact on the Company’s future earnings or stock price. Fluctuations in Interest Rates May Reduce Profitability Changes in interest rates affect interest income, the primary component of the Company’s gross revenue, as well as interest expense. The Company’s earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, the shape of the yield curve, the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond the Company’s control. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the demand of customers for products and services. As interest rates change, the Company expects to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. This means that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, changes in market interest rates may have a negative impact on the Company’s earnings. - 6 - - Index Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect the Company’s ability to originate loans, the value of these loans and the ability to realize gains from the sale of loans, all of which ultimately affect earnings. A decline in the market value of the Company’s assets may limit its ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, the Company could be required to sell some of its loans and investments under adverse market conditions, under terms that are not favorable, to maintain liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, losses may be incurred. See additional discussion on interest rate risk in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity Management - Interest Rate Risk." Competition with Other Banking Institutions Could Adversely Affect Profitability The banking industry is highly competitive. The Company faces increased competition not only from other financial institutions within the markets it serves, but deregulation has resulted in competition from companies not typically associated with financial services as well as companies accessed through the internet. As a community bank, the Company attempts to combat this increased competition by developing and offering new products and increased quality of services. Ultimately, competition can drive down the Company’s interest margins and reduce profitability and make it more difficult to increase the size of the loan portfolio and deposit base. Changes in the Regulatory Environment The financial services’ industry is heavily regulated. The Company is subject to federal and state regulation designed to protect the deposits of consumers, not to benefit shareholders. These regulations include the following: · the amount of capital the Company must maintain · the types of activities in which it can engage · the types and amounts of investments it can make · the locations of its offices · insurance of the Company's deposits and the premiums paid for this insurance · how much cash the Company must set aside as reserves for deposits The regulations impose limitations on operations and may be changed at any time, possibly causing future results to vary significantly from past results. Moreover, certain of these regulations contain significant punitive sanctions for violations, including monetary penalties and limitations on a bank’s ability to implement components of its business plan, such as expansion through mergers and acquisitions. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements may act to add costs associated with compliance efforts. Furthermore, government policy and regulation, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affect credit conditions. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Supervision and Regulation." Bank Regulations Could Discourage Changes in the Company's Ownership Bank regulations could delay or discourage a potential acquirer who might have been willing to pay a premium price to acquire a large block of common stock. That possibility might decrease the value of the Company's common stock and the price that a stockholder will receive if shares are sold in the future. Before anyone can buy enough voting stock to exercise control over a bank holding company like CWBC, bank regulators must approve the acquisition. A stockholder must apply for regulatory approval to own 10 percent or more of the Company's common stock, unless the stockholder can show that they will not actually exert control over the Company. No single stockholder can own more than 25 percent of the Company's common stock without applying for regulatory approval. - 7 - - Index The Price of the Company's Common Stock May Change Rapidly and Significantly The market price of the Company's common stock could change rapidly and significantly at any time. The market price of the Company's common stock has fluctuated in recent years. Fluctuations may occur, among other reasons, in response to: · short-term or long-term operating results · perceived strength of the banking industry in general · the Company’s relatively low public float and thinly-traded stock · perceived value of the Company's loan portfolio · trends in the Company's nonperforming assets · legislative/regulatory action or adverse publicity · announcements by competitors · economic changes and general market conditions The trading price of the Company's common stock may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the factors set forth above and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. The stock market can experience extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. The Company believes that investors should consider the likelihood of these market fluctuations before investing in the Company's common stock. Dependence on Real Estate Concentrated in the State of California Approximately $181 million, or 33.3%, of the loan portfolio of the Company is secured by various forms of real estate, including residential and commercial real estate. A decline in current economic conditions or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans. The real estate securing the Company's loan portfolio is concentrated in California. If real estate values decline significantly, especially in California, the change could harm the financial condition of the Company's borrowers, the collateral for its loans will provide less security and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Curtailment of Government Guaranteed Loan Programs Could Affect a Segment of the Company's Business A major segment of the Company's business consists of originating and periodically selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the SBA. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. Therefore, if these changes occur, the volume of loans to small business, industrial and agricultural borrowers of the types that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline. Also, the profitability of these loans could decline. As the funding of the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans is a major portion of the Company’s business, the long-term resolution to the funding for the 7(a) loan program may have an unfavorable impact on the Company’s future performance and results of operations. Reserve for Credit Losses May Not be Adequate to Cover Actual Loan Losses The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation. The Company maintains a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. In determining the level of the reserve for credit losses, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. If management’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Environmental Laws Could Force the Company to Pay for Environmental Problems When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, the Company generally purchases the property in foreclosure or accepts a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. The Company may also take over the management of commercial properties when owners have defaulted on loans. While CWB has guidelines intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of the properties that it owns, manages or occupies and unknown hazardous risks could impact the value of real estate collateral. The Company faces the risk that environmental laws could force it to clean up the properties at the Company's expense. It may cost much more to clean a property than the property is worth. The Company could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower's operations if the Company took a role in managing those operations after default. Resale of contaminated properties may also be difficult. - 8 - - Index Operational Risk Operational risk represents the risk of loss resulting from the Company’s operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, transaction processing errors and breaches of internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities and the management of this risk is important to the achievement of the Company’s objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation. The Company manages operational risk through a risk management framework and its internal control processes. While the Company believes that it has designed effective methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute assurance that business disruption or operational losses would not occur in the event of disaster. An Information Systems Interruption or Breach in Security Might Result in Loss of Customers The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business. In addition, it relies on third parties to provide key components of information system infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct operations. Furthermore, any security breach of information systems or data, whether managed by the Company or by third parties, could harm its reputation or cause a decrease in the number of its customers. Dependence on Technology and Technological Improvements The financial services’ industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition, to better serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company faces the risk of having to keep up with the rapid technological changes. Loss of Key Management Personnel The Bank is operated by key management personnel in each department of the Bank, including executive, lending, finance, operations and retail banking. Many of these key staff members have been employed by the Bank for a number of years and, accordingly, have developed expertise and a loyal customer following. In the event that a key management member were to terminate employment with the Bank, the effect may be to impair the Bank’s ability to operate as effectively as it does at the present time, or in the case of a former employee being hired by a competitor, may result in a loss of customers to a competitor. Variations in Quarterly Operating Results The Company’s results of operations are reported on a quarterly basis. In the event quarterly results fail to exceed results from the prior period or periods, securities analysts and stockholders might assume that a decline in profitability is indicative of lower results for a full fiscal year when they might be the result of temporary factors. Accounting Policies The financial statements prepared by the Company are subject to various guidelines and requirements promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and bank regulatory agencies. The adoption of new or revised accounting standards may adversely affect the reported results of operation. Litigation Risk We are involved in various matters of litigation in the ordinary course of business which, historically, have not been material to our assets or results of operations. No assurances can be given that future litigation may not have a material impact on the Company’s assets or results of operations. - 9 - - Index ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 