Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Item 4a Executive Officers of the Registrant PART II Item 5 Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6 — EnergySouth, Inc. — Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Control Persons of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures EXHIBIT INDEX Subsidiaries Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906 Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. General EnergySouth, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “Registrant”, and exclusive of its subsidiaries, “EnergySouth”) was initially incorporated under the laws of the State of Alabama on September 5, 1997 for the primary purpose of becoming the holding company for Mobile Gas Service Corporation (“Mobile Gas”), a natural gas utility, and its subsidiaries. Effective February 2, 1998, Mobile Gas and its subsidiaries were reorganized (the “Reorganization”) into a holding company structure whereby Mobile Gas became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EnergySouth. Mobile Gas was incorporated under the laws of the State of Alabama in 1933. Mobile Gas is engaged in the purchase, distribution, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 95,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers in Southwest Alabama, including the City of Mobile. Mobile Gas’ service territory covers approximately 300 square miles. Mobile Gas is also involved in merchandise sales, specifically sales of natural gas appliances. EnergySouth Services, Inc. (“Services”) was incorporated in March 1983. Through Services, the Company provides contract and consulting work for utilities and industrial customers. Services owns a 51% interest in Southern Gas Transmission Company (“SGT”), an Alabama general partnership which was formed in November 1991. SGT was established to provide transportation services to the facilities of Alabama River Pulp Company, Inc (“ARP”). During fiscal year 1992, SGT constructed and began operating a 50-mile pipeline from the facilities of Gulf South Pipeline Company (“Gulf South”) near Flomaton, Alabama to the facilities of ARP in Claiborne, Alabama. MGS Marketing Services, Inc. (“Marketing”) was incorporated on March 5, 1993 to assist existing and potential customers in the purchase of natural gas. During fiscal year 2003, as existing contracts for marketing services expired, such contracts were not renewed by Marketing. As of September 30, 2005 and 2006, the Company was not actively engaged in activities previously conducted by Marketing. In connection with the Reorganization, Services and Marketing became wholly-owned subsidiaries of EnergySouth during fiscal year 1998. EnergySouth Storage Services, Inc. (“Storage”) was incorporated on December 4, 1991 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mobile Gas. Effective December 19, 2000, Storage became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EnergySouth. As of September 30, 2006 Storage held a general partnership interest of 90.9% in Bay Gas Storage Company, Ltd. (“Bay Gas”), an Alabama limited partnership, and a 9.1% limited partnership interest was held by Olin Corporation (“Olin”). Bay Gas owns and operates underground gas storage and related pipeline facilities which are used to provide storage and delivery of natural gas for Mobile Gas and other customers. Business Segments The Company’s operations are classified into the following business segments: • Natural Gas Distribution – The Natural Gas Distribution segment is actively engaged in the distribution and transportation of natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial customers in Southwest Alabama through Mobile Gas and SGT. • Natural Gas Storage – The Natural Gas Storage segment provides for the underground storage of natural gas and transportation services through the operations of Bay Gas and Storage. The storage operations are located in Southwest Alabama. 1 Table of Contents • Other – Includes merchandising, financing, and other energy-related services which are provided through Mobile Gas and Services, respectively, and are aggregated with the corporate operations of EnergySouth, the holding company. For financial information by business segment, including revenues by segment, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, and 2004, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Customers Of the approximately 95,000 customers of the Company, approximately 95% are residential customers. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, approximately 54% of the Company’s gas revenues were derived from residential sales, 18% from small commercial and industrial sales, 10% from large commercial and industrial sales, 7% from transportation services, and 11% from storage and miscellaneous services. Residential sales in fiscal 2006 accounted for approximately 4% of the total volume of gas delivered to the Company’s customers, with small commercial and industrial, large commercial and industrial, and transportation deliveries accounting for approximately 2%, 1% and 93%, respectively. For further information with respect to revenues from and deliveries to the various categories of the Company’s customers, see Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” below. Gross margins, defined as gas revenues less cost of gas, by business segment are shown in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The ten largest customers of the Company accounted for approximately 22% of the Company’s gross margin in fiscal 2006, with the largest accounting for approximately 9%. EnergySouth is located at the crossroads of the expanding offshore natural gas production areas of the Central Gulf Coast and the developing gas-fired electric generation markets in the lower Southeast region of the United States. Mobile Gas provides transportation services to two gas-fired electric generating facilities which became operational in fiscal 2001. Bay Gas provides transportation services to three gas-fired electric generating facilities. During fiscal 1999 Bay Gas entered into storage contracts with electric utilities which fully subscribed the remaining space in its first storage cavern. During fiscal 2000 Bay Gas entered into a long term contract with Southern Company Services, Inc., as agent for a number of electric utility subsidiaries of Southern Company, to provide storage capacity of up to 3.2 million MMBtu of natural gas for those subsidiaries. To accommodate this contract, Bay Gas constructed a second underground storage cavern as discussed in “Gas Storage” below. During fiscal 2004, the remaining portion of the second cavern was fully subscribed on a firm basis, primarily through additional storage contracts with various electric utility customers. Bay Gas held a non-binding “open season” in fiscal 2004 to assess interest for up to 5.0 Bcf of additional working gas capacity. Based on the response to the open season, Bay Gas began construction on a third storage cavern and related facilities. It has also entered into multi-year contracts with customers for the planned third cavern capacity. The third cavern is designed to add 5.0 Bcf of working gas capacity and is presently anticipated to be in service by the fall of 2007. Having reached full subscription of the current working capacity of both existing caverns and the third cavern which is currently under development, Bay Gas held a non-binding “open season” in October 2006 to assess interest for up to 10.0 Bcf of additional working gas capacity. The planned development would include two new 5.0 Bcf high deliverability underground salt-dome caverns together with new pipeline interconnects with Transco and SONAT interstate natural gas pipelines. Bay Gas is currently communicating with respondents in an effort to secure agreements for firm storage services. Bay Gas plans to move forward with development of the fourth and fifth caverns and the two new pipeline interconnects subject to its ability to execute sufficient firm storage agreements with interested parties. Bay Gas’ growth has reflected the rapid growth in natural gas utilization in the markets it serves. Establishing interconnects with the SONAT and Transco pipeline systems will allow additional prospective customers to access Bay Gas. These interstate pipeline systems serve a number of traditional, wintertime markets for natural gas in the United States and will complement the warmer weather markets currently 2 Table of Contents connected to Bay Gas. Management believes that Bay Gas, with the possible construction of additional caverns and new interstate pipeline interconnects, is well positioned to serve the storage needs of these markets. Gas Supply The Company is directly connected to three natural gas processing plants in south Mobile County and one processing plant in north Mobile County. The Company has firm supply contracts for varying monthly payments with Chevron Natural Gas through October 31, 2007 and Exxon Mobil through November 30, 2007 through Mobile Gas’ direct connection with the Hatters Pond processing plant. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, the Company obtained approximately 51% of its gas supply from sources located in the Mobile Bay area, with the balance being obtained from interstate sources. Mobile Gas has a current peak day firm requirement of 105,000 MMBtus. Firm supply needs of 80,000 MMBtu/day are expected to be met through the withdrawal of gas from the storage facility owned by Bay Gas. The Company has contracted for firm transportation and storage service (“No-Notice Service”) for 24,000 MMBtu/day from Gulf South under an agreement effective through March 31, 2011. The gas supply requirement for the No-Notice Service is met through a contract with BP Energy Company through March 31, 2007. Gas Storage Construction of Bay Gas’ first storage cavern and facilities was completed in 1994. At September 30, 2006, the first cavern had the capacity to hold up to 3.2 million MMBtu of natural gas. Approximately 0.9 million MMBtu of the gas injected into the storage cavern, called “base gas,” remains in the cavern to provide sufficient pressure to maintain cavern integrity, and the remainder, approximately 2.3 million MMBtu, represents working storage capacity, referred to as “working gas capacity”. In 1994 Mobile Gas entered into a gas storage agreement with Bay Gas under which Bay Gas agreed to provide storage of 0.8 million MMBtu of working gas capacity of the first cavern for an initial period of 20 years. The construction of natural gas-fired electric generation facilities in the Southeast has provided opportunities to provide gas storage and transportation services. Construction of Bay Gas’ second storage cavern was completed and the cavern was placed into service April 1, 2003. Currently, the second storage cavern has a working gas capacity of 3.7 Bcf. Together, the two caverns at Bay Gas currently hold 6.0 Bcf, with injection and withdrawal capacity of 200 MMcf and 610 MMcf per day, respectively, and expansion of these caverns is currently planned to enable them to hold 7.0 Bcf. Such development will commence following completion of new cavern development and will be subject to certain operational considerations to avoid interruption of storage operations. Bay Gas is currently developing a third storage cavern and related facilities and has entered into multi-year contracts with customers for all of the cavern capacity. The new cavern is designed to add 5.0 Bcf of working gas capacity and is presently anticipated to be in service by the fall of 2007. The addition of the third cavern and additional capacity development of the second cavern is currently planned to ultimately increase the total working gas capacity of Bay Gas to 12.0 Bcf and injection and withdrawal capacities to 450 MMcf per day and 1.2 Bcf per day, respectively. As described above, Bay Gas plans to move forward with development of the fourth and fifth cavern and the new pipeline interconnects subject to its ability to execute sufficient firm storage agreements with the interested parties. 3 Table of Contents Competition Gas Distribution Competition. The Company is not in significant direct competition with respect to the retail distribution of natural gas to residential, small commercial and small industrial customers within its primary service area; however, it does compete with municipal gas distributors in some rural areas and in one small community which has allowed multiple gas franchises. Electricity competes with natural gas for such uses as cooking, water heating and space heating. The Company’s large commercial and industrial customers with requirements of approximately 200 MMBtu per day or more have the right to contract with the Company to transport customer-owned gas while other commercial and industrial customers buy natural gas from the Company. Some industrial customers have the capability to use either fuel oil, coal, wood chips or natural gas, and choose their fuel depending upon a number of factors, including the availability and price of such fuels. In recent years, the Company has had adequate supplies so that interruptible industrial customers that are capable of using alternative fuels have not had supplies curtailed. The Company’s rate tariffs include a competitive fuel clause which allows the Company to adjust its rates to certain large commercial and industrial customers in order to compete with alternative energy sources. Even so, in recent periods of volatility in natural gas prices, several customers who have the capability to use alternative fuels have switched to such alternative fuel sources in periods of extremely high natural gas prices. See “Rates and Regulation” below. Due to the close proximity of various pipelines and gas processing plants to the Company’s service area, there exists the possibility that current or prospective customers could install their own facilities and connect directly to a supply source and thereby “bypass” the Company’s service. The Company believes that because it has worked closely with major industrial customers to meet those customers’ needs, and because of its ability to provide competitive pricing under its rate tariffs, none of the Company’s customers have bypassed its facilities to date. Although there can be no assurance as to future developments, the Company intends to continue its efforts to reduce the likelihood of bypass by offering competitive rates and services to such customers. Gas Storage Competition. A number of types of competitors may provide services like or in competition with those of Bay Gas. These include, among others, natural gas storage facilities, natural gas aggregators, and natural gas pipelines. Bay Gas believes that its strategic geographic location and its ability to charge market-based rates for interstate storage services will enable it to effectively compete with such competitors. See “Rates and Regulation” below. Rates and Regulation The natural gas distribution operations of Mobile Gas are under the jurisdiction of the Alabama Public Service Commission (“APSC”). The APSC approves rates which are intended to permit the recovery of the cost of service including a return on investment. Rates were historically determined by reference to rate tariffs approved by the APSC in traditional rate proceedings or, for certain large customers, on a case-by-case basis. In addition, pursuant to APSC order, rates for a limited number of large industrial customers are determined on a privately negotiated basis. Since December 1, 1995, Mobile Gas has also been allowed to recover costs associated with its replacement of cast iron mains. This component of rates is adjusted annually through a filing with the APSC. The rates for service rendered by Mobile Gas are on file with the APSC. The APSC also approves the issuance of debt and equity securities and has supervision and regulatory authority over service, pipeline safety, accounting, and other matters. On June 10, 2002, the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) approved Mobile Gas’ request for the Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE) rate setting process to be effective October 1, 2002 through September 30, 2005, and thereafter unless modified or discontinued by APSC order. On June 14, 2005, the APSC issued an order to extend RSE on substantially the same basis from October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2009. In addition, absent an APSC order after that date modifying the RSE rate tariff, RSE shall continue in effect beyond September 30, 2009. RSE is a ratemaking methodology also used by the APSC to regulate other public Alabama energy utilities. Rate adjustments, designed to decrease annual gas revenues by approximately $303,000 and increase annual gas revenues by approximately $1.7 million and $2.8 million, were implemented under the RSE 4 Table of Contents tariff effective December 1, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The December 1, 2005 rate adjustment resulted in decreased revenues due primarily to the return of approximately $1,350,000 of the regulatory liability for gross receipts tax collections to ratepayers during fiscal 2006. Mobile Gas’ rates, as established under RSE, allow a return on average equity for the period. As such, Mobile Gas is allowed to earn a return on all of its assets with no exclusions. Increases are allowed only once each fiscal year, effective December 1, and cannot exceed four percent of prior-year revenues. Under RSE, the APSC has conducted reviews using fiscal year-to-date performance through January, April and July plus Mobile Gas’ budget projections to determine whether Mobile Gas’ return on equity was expected to be within the allowed range of 13.35% to 13.85% at the end of the fiscal year. No such adjustments were required for fiscal 2006 or through the July 2005 or 2004 test periods. Mobile Gas’ financial results for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 did, however, result in a return on equity above the allowed range. As a result, adjustments of $433,000 and $343,000 were made to fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year 2004 pre-tax earnings, respectively, such that the return on equity, as calculated for RSE purposes, equaled 13.6%, the midpoint of the allowed range, and a regulatory liability was recorded which reflected the amount owed to customers. Reductions in rates were made in fiscal year 2006 and 2005 which resulted in $433,000 and $343,000, respectively, being fully refunded to customers by the end of those respective fiscal years. RSE limits the amount of Mobile Gas’ equity upon which a return is permitted to 60 percent of its total capitalization and provides for certain cost control measures designed to monitor Mobile Gas’ operations and maintenance (O&M) expense. Under the inflation-based cost control measurement established by the APSC, if a change in Mobile Gas’ O&M expense per customer falls within 1.5 percentage points above or below the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Customers (index range), no adjustment is required. If the change in O&M expense per customer exceeds the index range, three-quarters of the difference is returned to customers through future rate adjustments. To the extent the change is less than the index range, Mobile Gas benefits by one-half of the difference through future rate adjustments. The increase in O&M expenses per customer was within the index range for the rate year ended September 30, 2006; therefore, no adjustments were required. The increase in O&M expenses per customer was below the index range for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. Under RSE Mobile Gas could recover one-half the difference, $298,000, through a rate increase effective December 1, 2005; however, the APSC has approved a waiver of this RSE requirement and instead will allow this amount to be used to offset any potential required returns to customers should O&M expense per customer exceed the index range in future years. In conjunction with the approval of RSE, the APSC approved an Enhanced Stability Reserve (ESR), beginning October 1, 2002, to which Mobile Gas may charge the full amount of: 1) extraordinary O&M expenses resulting from force majeure events such as storms, severe weather, and outages, when one such event results in more than $100,000 of additional O&M expense or a combination of two or more such events results in more than $150,000 of additional O&M expense during a fiscal year; or 2) losses of revenue from any individual industrial or commercial customer in excess of $100,000 during the fiscal year, if such losses cause Mobile Gas’ return on equity to fall below 13.35%. An initial ESR balance of $1.0 million was recorded October 1, 2002 and is being recovered from customers through rates. Subject to APSC approval, additional funding, up to a maximum reserve balance of $1.5 million, may be provided from any future non-recurring revenue should such revenue cause Mobile Gas’ return on equity for the fiscal year to exceed 13.85%. Following a year in which a charge against the ESR is made, the APSC allows for accruals to the ESR of no more than $15,000 monthly until the maximum funding level is achieved. The ESR balance of $1,000,000 at September 30, 2006 is included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as part of Regulatory Liabilities. In October 2000, the Corus Group plc (Corus, formerly known as British Steel) ceased operations of its Mobile facility and continued to pay Mobile Gas a minimum annual payment as required under the terms of its contract. On July 28, 2005, Corus elected to end the contract and make a termination payment as required by the terms of the contract. Under a Termination Agreement (Termination Agreement) between Mobile Gas and Corus, Corus agreed to pay Mobile Gas $6,100,000, of which $4,750,000 was paid in fiscal year 2006 and the final payment of $1,350,000 was paid October 2, 2006. The APSC approved Mobile Gas’ request to recognize the termination payments as a regulatory liability and amortize the balance into income over the remaining seven years of the original contract term. 5 Table of Contents Mobile Gas’ rates contain a temperature adjustment rider which is designed to offset the impact of unusually cold or warm weather on the Company’s operating margins. The temperature adjustment rider applies to substantially all residential and small commercial customers. Prior to November 1, 2006, the adjustment was calculated monthly for the months of November through April and applied to customers’ bills in the same billing cycle in which the weather variation occurs. Effective November 1, 2006, Mobile Gas will accumulate an adjustment for the margin impact due to variances in the weather. The accumulated adjustment from one heating season (November through April) will be billed or credited to customers in subsequent periods. This mechanism reduces the variability of both customers’ bills and Mobile Gas’ earnings due to weather fluctuations. The Mobile Gas rate tariffs include a purchased gas adjustment clause which allows it to pass on to its sales customers increases or decreases in gas costs from those reflected in its rate tariff charges. Adjustments under such clauses require periodic filings with the APSC but do not require a general rate proceeding. Under the purchased gas adjustment clause, Mobile Gas has a competitive fuel clause which gives it the right to adjust its rates to certain large customers in order to compete with alternative energy sources. Any margin lost as a result of competitive fuel clause adjustments is recoverable from its other customers. Gas deliveries to certain industrial customers are subject to regulation by the APSC through contract approval. The operations of SGT, which consist only of intrastate transportation of gas, are also regulated by the APSC. Bay Gas is a regulated utility governed under the jurisdiction of the APSC. As a regulated utility, Bay Gas’ intrastate storage contracts are subject to APSC approval. Operation of the storage cavern and well-head equipment are subject to regulation by the Oil and Gas Board of the State of Alabama. The APSC certificated Bay Gas as an Alabama gas storage public utility in 1992. Bay Gas provides substantial, long-term services for Mobile Gas and other customers that include storage and transportation of natural gas from interstate and intrastate sources. The APSC does not regulate rates for Bay Gas interstate gas storage and storage-related services. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), which has jurisdiction over interstate services, allows Bay Gas to charge market-based rates for such services. Market-based rates minimize regulatory involvement in the setting of rates for storage services and allow Bay Gas to respond to market conditions. Bay Gas also provides interstate transportation-only services. The FERC last issued orders on October 11, 2001 and June 3, 2002 approving rates for such services. On March 9, 2004, in accordance with FERC filing requirements, Bay Gas filed a petition with the FERC requesting approval of new rates for transportation-only service. On April 14, 2006, in response to Bay Gas’ petition for new rates, the FERC issued an order which does not have a significant impact on Bay Gas’ earnings. Mobile Gas has been granted nonexclusive franchises to construct, maintain and operate a natural gas distribution system in the areas in which it operates. Except for the franchise granted by Mobile County, Alabama, which has no stated expiration date, the franchises have various expiration dates, the earliest of which is in 2007. The Company has no reason to believe that the franchises will not be renewed upon expiration. Seasonal Nature of Business The nature of the Company’s business is highly seasonal and temperature-sensitive. As a result, the Company’s operating results in any given period have historically reflected, in addition to other matters, the impact of weather, with colder temperatures resulting in increased sales by the Company. The substantial impact of this sensitivity to seasonal conditions has been reflected in the Company’s results of operations. As discussed above under “Rates and Regulation”, the application of a temperature rate adjustment in customers’ 6 Table of Contents bills beginning in November 1996 has helped to level out the effects of temperature extremes on results of operations. Due to the seasonality of the Company’s business, the generation of working capital is impaired during the summer months because of reduced gas sales. Cash needs during this period are met generally through short-term financing arrangements or the reduction of temporary investments as is common in the industry. Environmental Issues The Company is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the environment, which have not had a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. Like many gas distribution companies, prior to the widespread availability of natural gas, the Company manufactured gas for sale to its customers. In contrast to some other companies which operated multiple manufactured gas plants, the Company and its predecessor operated only one such plant, which discontinued operations in 1933. The process for manufacturing gas produced by-products and residuals, such as coal tar, and certain remnants of these residuals are sometimes found at former gas manufacturing sites. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (“ADEM”) has conducted a Brownfield Site Inspection of the property. On January 5, 2005, ADEM released a “CERCLA Targeted Brownfield Site Inspection” report on the manufactured gas plant site. Mobile Gas had discussions with ADEM to identify steps necessary to obtain ADEM’s concurrence with Mobile Gas’ plans for the site. The Company engaged environmental consultants to evaluate the site in connection with the plans for the site. Based on their review, the Company recorded its best estimate of $200,000 as an expense and a remediation liability in fiscal 2004. The Company intends that, should further investigation or changes in environmental laws or regulations require material expenditures for evaluation or remediation with regard to the site, it would apply to the APSC for appropriate rate recovery of such costs. However, there can be no assurances that the APSC would approve the recovery of such costs or the amount and timing of any such recovery. Employees Mobile Gas employed 248 full-time employees as of September 30, 2006. Of these, approximately 37.5% are represented by the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union, Local No. 3-0541. As of September 30, 2006 Bay Gas employed 12 full-time employees. The Company believes that it enjoys generally good labor relations. Available Information The Company’s internet address is www.energysouth.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet Web site its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s financial and operating results are subject to a number of factors, many of which are not within the control of management. Although key risk factors are discussed below, other risks may prove to be more important in the future. These factors include the following: 7 Table of Contents Third Party Facilities: The Company is served by third party facilities. These facilities include third party natural gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Mobile Gas relies upon such facilities for access to natural gas supplies. Bay Gas relies on such facilities for access to markets for its storage services. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise could result in material adverse financial consequences to Mobile Gas, Bay Gas and/or the Company. Operations: Inherent in the gas distribution activities of Mobile Gas and the storage services provided by Bay Gas are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to the Company. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect Mobile Gas’, Bay Gas’ and/or the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory Environment: Mobile Gas’ distribution system is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) and utilizes a Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE) rate setting process. Mobile Gas’ rates, as established under RSE, allow a certain return on average equity for the period. As such, Mobile Gas is allowed to earn a return on all of its assets with no exclusions. Mobile Gas’ tariff also includes a purchased gas adjustment clause which allows it to pass on to its sales customers increases or decreases in gas costs from those reflected in its tariff charges. There is a risk that changes in the regulatory environment, including rate relief to recover increased capital and operating costs, allowed rates of return and the ability to pass on to customers the increased costs of natural gas could adversely affect the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Mobile Gas. Bay Gas’ intrastate storage operations are regulated by the APSC on a contract basis. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has jurisdiction over interstate services and allows Bay Gas to charge market-based rates for storage services. Market-based rates minimize regulatory involvement in the setting of rates for storage services and allow Bay Gas to respond to market conditions. There is a risk that changes in the regulatory environment, such as the inability of Bay Gas to charge market based rates for storage services, could have an adverse affect on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Bay Gas. Environmental Regulation: The Company is subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to employee health and safety. Environmental legislation also requires that the Company’s facilities, sites and other properties associated with its operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose the Company to fines, penalties or interruptions in the operations of the Company that could be significant to the financial results. In addition, existing environmental regulations may be revised or the Company’s operations may become subject to new regulations. Such revised or new regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility of Natural Gas Prices: Although Mobile Gas utilizes fixed price contracts to mitigate gas supply cost risk in the near term, fluctuations in future gas supply costs could materially affect its financial position and rates to customers. Significant increases in the price of natural gas may cause Mobile Gas’ retail customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. 8 Table of Contents Customer Concentration: Revenues and related accounts receivable from Bay Gas’ storage operations are primarily generated from the storage of natural gas for customers who provide energy related services, including natural gas-fired electric generation, natural gas distribution, and energy marketing companies. This concentration of services to the energy industry has the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the Company’s customers may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry or other conditions. Bay Gas enters into long-term contracts with customers for firm storage capacity. Four customers have contracted for approximately 97% of the current working gas storage capacity under long term contracts that expire at various dates from October 2007 to March 2018. Bay Gas’ largest customer has contracted for approximately 53% of the current working gas storage capacity which expires in March 2018. Mobile Gas Service Territory: Mobile Gas’ utility customers are geographically concentrated in southwest Alabama. Significant economic, weather, natural disaster, criminal act or other events that adversely affect this area could adversely affect Mobile Gas and the Company. Competition: In the residential and commercial customer markets, Mobile Gas’ regulated utility operations compete with other energy products. The primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. As discussed above, increases in the price of natural gas could negatively impact Mobile Gas’ competitive position by causing the customer to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Adverse economic conditions, including higher natural gas costs, could cause Mobile Gas’ industrial customers to use alternate sources of energy, such as fuel oil, coal or wood chips. Due to the close proximity of various pipelines and gas processing plants to Mobile Gas’ service area, there exists the possibility that current or prospective customers could install their own facilities and connect directly to a supply source and thereby “bypass” Mobile Gas’ system. This potential bypass of the distribution system creates a risk of the loss of large industrial/commercial customers that could adversely affect Mobile Gas’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Bay Gas operates the easternmost high deliverability, underground salt-dome storage caverns in the Southeast region of the United States. Although Bay Gas’ storage operations currently face competition from other existing natural gas storage facilities, natural gas aggregators and natural gas pipelines, competition may increase if new infrastructure is constructed near its existing facilities. Access to Credit Markets: The natural gas distribution and natural gas storage businesses are capital intensive. The Company and its subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term and long-term capital markets to satisfy liquidity requirements. Adverse changes in the economy or these markets, the overall health of the industries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate and changes to the creditworthiness of the Company could limit access to these markets and/or increase the cost of capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 