ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Financial Condition As a consequence of the economic slowdown that the United States has been experiencing, business activity across a wide range of industries faces serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; • A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate; • An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; and • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. Commercial Real Estate and Business Loans Increase Our Exposure to Credit Risks At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $4.8 billion, or 65% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally exposes us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan. 23 Table of Contents We target our business lending and marketing strategy towards small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact these businesses, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Increases to the Allowance for Credit Losses May Cause Our Earnings to Decrease Our customers might not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans might be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for credit losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings. Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition. Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Risk Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, currently Upstate New York and Western Pennsylvania and, if the Harleysville acquisition is completed, Southeastern Pennsylvania. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in both Upstate New York and Western Pennsylvania, and Southeastern Pennsylvania after the merger, have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could increase default rates on those loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results. Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by unanticipated changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in our net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities available for sale. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of our securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. 24 Table of Contents Our Ability to Grow May Be Limited if We Cannot Make Acquisitions In an effort to fully deploy our capital and to increase our loans and deposits, we intend to continue to acquire other financial institutions, financial services companies, or branches. We compete with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. We cannot predict if or when we will be able to identify and attract acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. Additionally, acquisitions are subject to approvals by Federal and state bank regulatory authorities, and we cannot predict whether acquisitions we may wish to make will receive the required approvals. We incur risks and challenges associated with the integration of acquired institutions in a timely and efficient manner, and we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or achieving anticipated operating efficiencies. Growing By Acquisition Entails Certain Risks In September 2009, we acquired 57 branch locations in Western Pennsylvania from National City Bank and have pending a proposed merger with Harleysville National Corporation, which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2010 and will add at least 83 branch locations in Southeastern Pennsylvania. As indicated above under “Our Ability to Grow May Be Limited If We Cannot Make Acquisitions,” we intend to continue to acquire other financial institutions, financial service companies or branches. Growth by acquisition involves risks. The success of our acquisitions may depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of the acquired company with our businesses in a manner that does not result in decreased revenues resulting from disruption of existing customer relationships of the acquired company. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than planned. Further, the asset quality or other financial characteristics of a company we plan to acquire may deteriorate between the date a merger or other acquisition agreement is entered into and the transaction is completed. Depending upon the terms we negotiate in the related merger or acquisition agreement, the deterioration may not allow us to fail to close the proposed transaction. Or, we may be required to close the proposed transaction with such a company to the detriment of our future financial condition. Strong Competition May Limit Our Growth and Profitability Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area. We May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of financial institutions. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the OTS, the FDIC, and the NYSBD. Assuming that our Bank becomes a national bank, the Federal Reserve will be the primary federal bank regulatory agency for our holding company and the OCC for our Bank. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of a bank, the classification of assets by a bank, and the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for credit losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on us and our operations. We believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and applicable regulations are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that proposed laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules, or regulation, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. 25 Table of Contents Proposed Legislative and Regulatory Reforms Could, if Enacted or Adopted, Result in Our Business Becoming Subject to Significant and Extensive Additional Regulations and/or Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition The extreme disruptions in the capital markets since mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure of numerous financial institutions have led to numerous proposals for legislative and regulatory reform that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry and that may significantly impact our business. These proposals include the following: • tightening controls on the ability of banking institutions to engage in transactions with affiliates; • limiting the size and activities of financial institutions; • amending regulatory capital standards, and increasing regulatory capital requirements, for banks and other financial institutions and establishing new formulaic liquidity requirements applicable to financial institutions, including those proposals described above under “Supervision and Regulation—Proposed Capital and Liquidity Requirements;” • establishing a new Financial Services Oversight Council chaired by the Treasury and a Consumer Financial Protection Agency; • establishing greater government powers to regulate risk across the financial system; and • establishing heightened standards for and increased scrutiny of compensation policies at financial institutions. Lawmakers and regulators in the United States continue to consider these and a number of other wide ranging and comprehensive proposals for altering the structure, regulation, and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. For example, separate comprehensive financial reform bills were introduced in both houses of Congress in the second half of 2009, and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a financial reform bill in December of 2009, which has not been passed by the U.S. Senate. We cannot predict the final form, or effects on us, of these or other potential or proposed reforms. These and other potential or proposed legislative and regulatory changes could adversely impact the profitability our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require us to change certain of our business practices or alter our relationships with customers, affect retention of key Company personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs and increased risk of litigation). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about the regulation to which we are subject. Any Future FDIC Insurance Premiums May Adversely Affect our Earnings We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Further, on January 12, 2010, the FDIC requested comments on a proposed rule tying assessment rates of FDIC insured institutions to the institution’s employee compensation programs. The exact requirements of and whether such a rule ultimately will be adopted are not yet known, but such a rule could increase the amount of premiums the Company must pay for FDIC insurance. These announced increases and any future increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. We Are a Holding Company and Depend on Our Subsidiaries for Dividends, Distributions and Other Payments We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from our Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by our Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of the OTS and, upon our Bank’s conversion to a national bank charter, the OCC affect or will affect the ability of our Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. If our Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See “—Federal Regulation of Our Savings Bank—Capital Distributions” and “—Regulation as a Bank Holding Company With a National Bank Subsidiary—Dividend Restrictions” above under “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 26 Table of Contents In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. We Hold Certain Intangible Assets that Could Be Classified as Impaired in The Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired in the Future, the Book Values of These Assets Would Decrease. We are required to test our goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common shares, the estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of our goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels. We Are Subject to a Variety of Operational Risks, Including Reputational Risk, Legal and Compliance Risk, the Risk of Fraud or Theft by Employees or Outsiders, Which May Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about our other business. If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and the large transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, perhaps materially. 27 Table of Contents Our Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Security Breach We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of our clients. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Anti-takeover Laws and Certain Agreements and Charter Provisions May Adversely Affect Share Value Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our board of directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a thrift bank holding company, state member bank or national bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquiror “controls” the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquiror. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 