ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We rely on a small number of large clients. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, or if we experience unanticipated costs implementing systems and ramping up our services for new clients, our business could be adversely affected. Innotrac focuses on developing long-term contractual relationships with large corporations. A relatively small number of our clients account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our ten largest clients accounted for 68.4% of our revenue in 2007. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one of these large clients is lost, or revenues from our largest clients decline, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace or supplement that client with others that generate comparable revenues or profits. One of our largest clients in 2006, BellSouth, was acquired by AT&T in December 2006. On November 6, 2007, AT&T notified us that they intended to transition their fulfillment business in-house. The transition date was initially planned for the fourth quarter of 2008 but is now expected to occur some time in 2009. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, that AT&T business represented approximately 12% of our total revenue. We do not expect the loss of this account to impact our results until 2009. Although we believe that our continuing and expected new business will substantially offset this loss, such business may not develop as we project and it is thus possible that the loss of the AT&T business, or the future loss of any other large account, could adversely affect our future results. 9 Our written contracts generally do not guarantee specific volume levels and can usually be terminated on little notice. Although we have written agreements with most of our clients, our agreements generally do not assure specific volume or revenue levels. In addition, some agreements provide for termination for any reason on short notice. Furthermore, we are contractually bound to our facility leases until their terms expire. If a client terminates its contract suddenly, we will still have obligations under our leases. Our business model requires investment in information systems and logistics equipment designed to service the needs of our clients in concentrated industry types such as direct response or ecommerce and catalogue distribution. A down turn in either our direct response or ecommerce business could result in underutilization of already invested facilities or technology which would be poorly designed for use by us with clients in other industries. Although we believe servicing multiple types of industries offers stability to our overall revenue generation, a significant downturn in either of these two industries could adversely affect our operating results and require material new investment to redesign certain of our operating systems and logistics operations. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and, as a result, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were ineffective as of December 31, 2007. Although we are attempting to remediate the material weakness, if we are unable to successfully do so, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting develop, we may be unable to comply with our periodic reporting requirements, accurately report our financial results, detect fraud or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In April 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting due to an understaffed financial and accounting function, and current personnel that lack certain technical accounting skills necessary to prepare financial statements that properly reflect our current level and scope of activities. We have undertaken remedial actions related to this material weakness, however our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial (and Principal Accounting) Officer have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures remain ineffective as of December 31, 2007, due to the conditions that led to the identification of the material weakness. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” for more information regarding the material weakness. Under current regulations, our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2008 will also include our independent auditors’ evaluation of management’s assessment and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Remedying the currently existing material weakness, as well as any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our auditors may identify in the future, may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such current or future deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remediate such deficiencies. If we fail to timely remedy any current or additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our auditors may identify, we may be unable to comply with our periodic reporting requirements, accurately report our financial results, detect fraud or comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we can give no assurance that our independent auditors will agree with our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at that time. 10 If we are not able to keep pace with changing technology, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to: ● integrate new clients in a timely and cost efficient manner; ● enhance existing services; ● develop applications to meet our clients’ needs; and ● introduce new services and products to respond to technological developments. If we fail to maintain our technological capabilities or respond effectively to technological changes, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to meet our clients’ needs and maintain competitiveness. Our Reno system which provides service to several of our clients is completely customized and therefore not supported by third party providers. We are heavily reliant on a small number of developers. If these developers leave, it could materially adversely affect our business. We provide details about our technology in “Business—Technology” in Item 1. Our common stock lacks liquidity and is held by a small number of investors, one of which is in receivership where its creditors would like to sell our shares as soon as possible. As of December 31, 2007, Innotrac officers and directors owned approximately 47.0% of the outstanding common stock and an institutional shareholder, IPOF Fund, L.P., and its affiliates held 34.3%. These ownership positions have resulted in a lack of liquidity in our common stock. Additionally, if any of Innotrac’s significant shareholders decided to liquidate its or their position, our common stock price would likely decline materially. The United States District Court in Cleveland, Ohio has appointed a receiver to identify and administer the assets of the IPOF Fund, L.P. and its general partner, Mr. David Dadante. Based on information from the receiver, the Company understands that the Fund and Mr. Dadante own 4,321,771 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 34.3% of the total shares outstanding, all of which are held as collateral in margin accounts maintained at several financial institutions. The Company has been engaged in discussions with the receiver in an effort to cause the shares to be sold in a manner that causes as little disruption to the market for Company stock as possible. The Federal Court has prohibited the financial institutions holding Company stock owned by the IPOF Fund and Mr. Dadante in margin accounts from selling any of these shares through at least June 6, 2008. The court has permitted open market sales by the receiver as he may in his sole discretion determine to be consistent with his duty to maximize the value of the assets of IPOF Fund, and as warranted by market conditions. The receiver has indicated to the Company that he does not intend to direct any open market sales during this period except in circumstances in which he believes that there would be no material adverse impact on the market price for the Company’s shares. Nevertheless, as long as these shares are held in margin accounts where the lenders desire to liquidate the positions, there will be significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock because the market is concerned that these shares may be sold in a manner that causes the price of our common stock to decline precipitously. This concern is ameliorated to some degree by the continuing prohibition by the Federal Court on sales of our shares by financial institutions that hold the shares in margin accounts. The Federal Court has extended this prohibition on several occasions, most recently to June 6, 2008, while we and the receiver pursue the sale of these shares in a manner that would not disrupt the market for our common stock. If the Federal Court were to not extend this prohibition before the shares have been sold in such a transaction, then the financial institutions might foreclose on some or all of these shares and sell them into the market, which could have an extremely negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 11 Noncompliance with any of the covenants under our revolving credit agreement or Second Lien Term Loan allows our lenders to declare any outstanding amounts to be immediately due and payable. Our revolving line of credit agreement and second lien term loan contain financial, change of ownership control and other restrictive covenants. Noncompliance with any of the covenants allows the lenders to declare any outstanding borrowed amounts to be immediately due and payable. From time to time in the past, we have violated various restrictive covenants, and have been obligated to obtain waivers or amendments from the lender. We were in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant and other reporting requirements of the debt agreements as of December 31, 2007. Failure to comply with the covenants in the future could adversely affect our credit ratings, which could increase our costs of debt financings and impair our ability to obtain additional debt financing needed to repay the existing debt. Our business is subject to government regulation, which may limit our activities or increase our costs. In connection with the limited amount of outbound telemarketing services that we provide, we must comply with federal and state regulations. These include the Federal Communications Commission’s rules under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 and the Federal Trade Commission’s regulations under the Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994, both of which govern telephone solicitation. When we conduct outbound telemarketing services, these rules and regulations would apply to that portion of our business. Furthermore, there may be additional federal and state legislation or changes in regulatory implementation. These changes could include interpretations under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 restricting the ability of telecommunications companies to use consumer proprietary network information (CPNI) or imposing new requirements on telecommunications companies to better ensure security and privacy of CPNI. New legislation or regulatory implementation in the future may significantly increase compliance costs or limit our activities, our clients’ activities or the activities of companies to which we outsource outbound telemarketing functions. Additionally, we could be responsible for failing to comply with regulations applicable to our clients or companies to which we outsource telemarketing. If unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations affecting Caller ID service, CPNI, internet service or other technology related to products we fulfill and provide customer support for are adopted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Business ¾ Government Regulation” in Item 1 for further information about government regulation of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), we are not required to provide the information required by this item. 