D. RISK FACTORS Our future revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that are likely to cause these fluctuations, some of which are outside of our control, include, without limitation, the following: • the current economic environment and other developments in the telecommunications industry; • the mix of our products sold, including inventory items with low product costs; • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in demand for and sales of our products, the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, and the general level of spending in the telecommunications industry; • our ability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity, and particularly to limit excess capacity commensurate with the volatile demand levels for our products; • our ability to successfully complete a transition to an outsourced manufacturing model; • the ability of our outsourced manufacturers to timely produce and deliver subcomponents, and possibly complete products in the quantity and of the quality we require; • competitive factors, including the introduction of new products and product enhancements by competitors and potential competitors, pricing pressures, and the competitive environment in the -13- Table of Contents markets into which we sell our products, including competitors with substantially greater resources than we have; • our ability to effectively develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • the availability and cost of components for our products; • new product introductions that may result in increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter, with revenues, if any, that are not recognized until a subsequent or later quarter; and • the unpredictability of consumer demand and difficulties in meeting such demand. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating and recognizing revenue, our quarterly operating results are likely to be seriously harmed. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as any indication of our future performance. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 1999, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of other telecommunications companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of telecommunications-related companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technology innovations, new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; • any deviations in our net revenue or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of telecommunications-related companies. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We experience intense competition with respect to our products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, -14- Table of Contents marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, our competitors that have larger market capitalization or cash reserves are better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of each customer’s financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. As of December 31, 2005 and 2006, our five largest accounts receivable accounted for approximately 47% and 43% of our total accounts receivable. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries and creates significant risks. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the government, economic reform policies since 1978 have emphasized decentralization and the utilization of market mechanisms in the development of the Chinese economy. We have significantly benefited from such reforms, as the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications since 1994 has opened the telecommunications equipment market of China to all kinds of manufacturers. Our management believes that the basic principles underlying the reforms will continue to provide an acceptable framework of the PRC’s political and economic systems. In addition, we currently see no evidence that this refinement and readjustment process may adversely affect, directly or indirectly, the Company’s operations in the future. As substantially all of our operations are conducted in Mainland China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in Mainland China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi (“Rmb”) which must be converted into other currencies before remittance outside Mainland China. Both the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies abroad require the approval of the Mainland Chinese government. Our currency is not freely convertible. The State Administration for Exchange Control (“SAEC”), under the authority of the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (“CFETS”) market. Since substantially all of our raw materials are provided by local suppliers using Renminbi and the majority of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi, restrictions on currency conversions did not materially affect our operations. Also, since we do not expect to require any raw material that are not permitted or are limited to purchase using foreign currencies, our management believes that such restriction will not materially affect our operations in the future. However, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments, -15- Table of Contents and our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to restrictions on the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars and, as a result, may be restricted to make distributions to us. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage for damage to our Chinese factories. We have no direct business operation, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries located in China, and our results of operations and financial condition are currently solely dependent on our subsidiaries’ factories in China. We currently maintain fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $7.0 million covering various of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment, and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not sufficiently cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flooding or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. However, we have not materially suffered from such damage or loss to date. Our Company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes on an entity basis on income arising in or derived from the tax jurisdictions in which they operate. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes on an entity basis on income arising in or derived from the tax jurisdictions in which they operate. The Company, QXMC and QXCH were incorporated under the International Business Companies Act of the BVI and, accordingly, are exempted from the payment of BVI income taxes. The Company’s branch office registered in Hong Kong is subject to Hong Kong income taxes at a rate of 17.5%. At present, substantially all of the Group’s income is generated in Mainland China by QXCI and CECT. QXPL and QXCI, being located in Huizhou, Mainland China, are subject to Mainland Chinese enterprise income taxes at a rate of 15%. QXCI was exempted from Mainland Chinese enterprise income tax for two years starting from January 1, 2003, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in state income tax and full exemption in local income tax for the following three years. CECT is regarded as a “Hi-tech” enterprise by the Mainland Chinese government and is subject to Mainland Chinese enterprise income taxes at a rate of 15%. CECT was exempted from Mainland Chinese enterprise income tax for the period from May 22, 2000 to December 31, 2002, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in state income tax and full exemption in local income tax for the following three years. On March 16, 2007, the Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the New Tax Law, was promulgated. Under the New Tax Law, which will become effective on January 1, 2008, domestic enterprises and foreign investment enterprises will be subject to a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25%, except that enterprises that were approved to be established prior to March 16, 2007 may continue to enjoy the existing preferential tax treatments until December 31, 2012. Details of the 5-year transitional period arrangement (i.e., from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2012) for enterprises approved to be established prior to March 16, 2007 are expected to be set out in more detailed implementation rules to be adopted in the future. In addition, certain qualifying high technology enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the New Tax Law. The definition of ''qualifying high-technology enterprises’’ is expected to also be set out in more detailed implementation rules to be adopted in the future. As a result of the New Tax Law, if CECT is qualified as a ''qualifying high-technology enterprise’’, it will continue to be subject to a preferential tax rate of 15% starting from January 1, 2008, subject to any rules implemented under the transitional period arrangement. Otherwise, CECT’s applicable tax rate will increase from its existing tax rate of 15% to the unified tax rate of 25% by January 1, 2013 under the New Tax Law and in accordance with more detailed implementation rules to be adopted in the future. The effects of any changes in tax rates on the Group’s deferred tax balances will be recognized in 2007, the period the New Tax Law is enacted. -16- Table of Contents From January 1, 2008, dividends from the Group’s PRC subsidiaries will also be subject to dividend withholding tax. The statutory withholding tax rate is 20 percent, subject to relief to be introduced by the PRC State Council. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends from CECT to the Company were not subject to dividend withholding tax. We depend upon certain key personnel to manage our company. Our ability to successfully carry out our business plans continues to be largely dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and executive officers, particularly our chairman, Rui Lin Wu. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wu and the loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Further, we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policy on his life. We are controlled by one of our shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Rui Lin Wu, our chief executive officer and chairman, and members of his family beneficially own or control approximately 23.9% of our outstanding shares as of July 10, 2007. Accordingly, he has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without his consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may adversely affect the amount received by U.S. shareholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our -17- Table of Contents stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon them. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or China would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or China, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. -18- Table of Contents Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. ITEM 