Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to reverse the recent trend of operating losses and negative cash flows from operations, our available sources of liquidity may be unable to sustain the current operating and expansion plans. Historically, our liquidity needs have been met primarily by available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and sales of securities. We experienced operating losses and negative cash flows from operations during fiscal year 2007. Consequently, we have relied on our revolving credit facility to fund certain expansion and operating costs. At December 29, 2007, we had approximately $6.3 million available under our revolving credit facility. If cash generated from operations does not result in a sufficient level of working capital, our expansion and operating plans would be solely dependent on accessing funds under the unused capacity of our revolving credit facility. Further borrowings or a reduction in the amount available under the revolving credit facility would constrain expansion and operating activities. A reduction in inventory levels could cause a reduction in the amount available under the revolving credit facility. In such an instance, we would need to reduce our operating costs and seek alternative funding, the nature and source of which has not been identified and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to implement either or both of these steps, our operations would be materially and adversely impacted. If we are unable to successfully reduce operating expenses and control costs to reverse our recent operating losses, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. We incurred a loss of $16.3 million in fiscal year 2007 of which $9.0 million was from the recognition of non-cash charges related to an asset impairment charge of $3.1 million, depreciation of $3.0 million, a lower of cost or market adjustment of $2.6 million and $0.3 million of stock based compensation. In response to these losses, we have undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce our operating expenses and maintain our capital. Many of our operating expenses are fixed or are otherwise of such a nature that it is difficult to achieve a meaningful cost saving. Consequently, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in reducing operating expenses and controlling costs in an amount sufficient to improve our financial performance. Moreover, no assurance can be given that by reducing operating expenses and controlling costs we will return to profitability. Any failure to successfully reduce operating expenses and control costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to successfully implement, maintain and expand our consignment merchandise program, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. 11 No assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing, maintaining and expanding our new business model in the future. Nor can any assurance be given that we will be able to enter into new consignment agreements or maintain and renew existing consignment agreements. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that introduction of new product offerings in our stores will contribute a margin at least comparable to what footwear had generated in the vacated floor space. Any failure to successfully implement, maintain and expand our new business model could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to successfully sell the merchandise identified for the reduction of floor space for the new consignment merchandise at the discounted prices, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in selling the merchandise at the markdown prices in the future and further inventory write-downs may be necessary. In addition, no assurance can be given that the floor space for the new consignment merchandise will become available. Any failure to successfully implement or maintain our markdown strategy could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully open new stores at an increased rate compared to the last several years, which could adversely affect our future earnings growth. A significant element of our growth strategy involves the expansion and improvement of our store base. The success of our planned expansion will depend significantly on the adequacy of our capital resources as well as our ability to locate suitable store sites and negotiate acceptable lease terms. In addition, there are a number of other factors that could affect our expansion plans, including the ability to: build out new store sites on a timely and cost-effective basis; hire, train and retain employees; and expand and adapt our operational systems to serve a larger number of stores in an expanded geographic region. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our planned expansion or that any such expansion will be profitable. In addition, there can be no assurance that our expansion within our existing markets will not adversely affect the financial performance of our existing stores or our overall operating results, or that new stores will achieve net sales and profitability levels consistent with existing stores. There can be no assurance that the recent shift to larger format stores will produce results in line with our expectations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the recent new stores or new stores scheduled to be opened in fiscal year 2008 will mature in four to five years to achieve its optimum selling potential. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy or manage our growing business, future operating results could be negatively impacted. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in maintaining or increasing our sales in the future. Any future growth in sales will require additional working capital and may place a significant strain on management, information systems, inventory management and distribution facilities. Any failure to timely enhance our operating systems, or unexpected difficulties in implementing such enhancements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The accelerated opening of new stores in the past three years may impact our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance, which, in turn, may impact the price for our common stock. Historically, our comparable store sales have fluctuated widely, and we expect them to continue to do so in the future. We define comparable store sales as those stores that have been open for at least 13 consecutive months. For fiscal year 2007, our comparable store sales increased 0.6% from fiscal year 2006. For fiscal year 2006, our comparable store sales increased 3.9% from fiscal year 2005. For fiscal year 2005, our comparable store sales increased 6.9% from fiscal year 2004. In the past three fiscal years, we have opened 49 new stores and closed 19 existing stores for a net increase of 30 additional stores. Generally, we have found that a newly opened store takes several years to reach an optimum performance level. Because a greater percentage of our stores are relatively new, they are increasingly influencing our comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance. To the extent these new stores reduce comparable store sales or quarterly financial performance they could have a negative impact on our stock price. Our business is subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations which may, in turn, affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and net income. Historically, net sales and net income have been weakest during the first quarter following the holiday season. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of new store openings, the level of net sales contributed by new stores, merchandise mix, the 12 timing and level of price markdowns, availability of inventory, store closures, advertising costs, the success of advertising campaigns, competitive pressures and changes in the demand for off-price footwear. For example, sales in the first half of fiscal year 2005 benefited from significant rainfall in Southern California and the introduction of new merchandise categories (children's shoes and accessories) in selected store locations. Sales in the first half of fiscal year 2006 did not benefit from the same factors. Because our stores are concentrated in the western part of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. Currently, 71 of our stores are located in California and the balance are located in Washington, Oregon, Arizona, Nevada, Texas and New Mexico. Accordingly, we are subject to regional risks, such as the economy, weather conditions, natural disasters and government regulations. When a region suffers an economic downturn or when other adverse events occur, historically there has been an adverse effect on our sales and profitability and this could also affect our ability to implement our planned growth. In addition, many of our vendors rely on the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach as the ports of entry for the merchandise we sell in our stores. Any disruption or congestion at these ports could impair our ability to adequately stock the stores. Several of our competitors operate stores across the United States and, thus, are not as vulnerable to such regional risks. Decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our footwear and accessories. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the footwear and related accessories that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates, income taxes and policies, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns are influenced by consumers' disposable income. As a result, economic developments that potentially reduce consumers' disposable income, such as recent increases in gasoline and energy prices and the rate of inflation, could impact consumer spending habits. Consumer confidence is also affected by the domestic and international political landscape. The outbreak or escalation of war, or the occurrence of terrorist acts or other hostilities in or affecting the United States, could lead to a decrease in spending by consumers. If consumers reduce spending, we could experience lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis and be forced to delay or slow our expansion plans. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks may cause damage or disruption to our employees, facilities, information systems, vendors and customers, which could significantly impact our net sales, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility may cause greater uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict. Such terrorist attacks could cause ports to or through which we or our vendors receive shipments, such as the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, to be shut down, thereby preventing the delivery of products to our stores. Our geographical focus in the Western and Southwestern United States may make us more vulnerable to such uncertainties than other comparable retailers who may not have similar geographical concentration. We may be unable to anticipate and respond to fashion trends and consumer preferences in the markets in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our merchandising strategy is based on identifying each region's customer base and having the proper mix of products in each store to attract our target customers in that region. This requires us to anticipate and respond to numerous and fluctuating variables in fashion trends and other conditions in the markets in which our stores are situated. A variety of factors will affect our ability to maintain the proper mix of products in each store, including: variations in local economic conditions, which could affect our customers' discretionary spending; unanticipated fashion trends; our success in developing and maintaining vendor relationships that provide us with access to in-season merchandise at attractive prices; our success in distributing merchandise to our stores in a timely and efficient manner; and 13 change in weather patterns, which in turn affect consumer preferences and needs. If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs of each region, we may experience decreases in our net sales and may be forced to increase markdowns to slow-moving merchandise, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any expansion into new geographic regions may heighten this risk. Historically, we have closed an underperforming store at the conclusion of the store's lease term. If we are unable to close an underperforming store because the lease has not expired, we could suffer operating losses at such store until the lease ends or we otherwise restructure or buy out the lease. We actively monitor individual store performance and close underperforming stores at the conclusion of the lease term. In certain instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming store on a timely basis because of lease terms. The inability to close one or more underperforming stores on a timely basis could result in operating losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. During the last two quarters of fiscal year 2007, we recognized $3.1 million in noncash impairment losses and we may need to record additional impairment losses in the future if our stores' operating performance does not improve. We continually review all our stores' operating performance and evaluate the carrying value of their assets in relation to their expected future cash flows. In those cases where circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the applicable assets may not be recoverable, we record an impairment loss related to the long-lived assets. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, we recognized a $1.7 million noncash impairment charge for 7 stores and in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we recognized a $1.4 million noncash impairment charge for 6 stores. If our stores' operating performance does not improve in the future, the carrying value of our stores' assets may not be recoverable in light of future expected cash flows. This may result in our need to record additional impairment losses in certain markets where our stores operate that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The covenants in our revolving credit facility may impact our ability to access borrowings to fund our expansion. Our current plan anticipates funding new store openings in fiscal year 2008 from cash flow, tenant improvement allowances and from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. We maintain a revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC that provides for a credit facility of up to $40.0 million, including a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The amount of borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be increased at our option up to a maximum of $50.0 million. Under the terms of this revolving credit facility, we are subject to an annual capital expenditures limit of $10.0 million. In each remaining year of the revolving credit facility, Wells Fargo will adjust our capital expenditure limit based upon our business plan. Because Wells Fargo has no obligation to cooperate with us in this regard, there is no assurance that we will be permitted to use the revolving credit facility to make the capital expenditures necessary to fully implement our plans. We are subject to a number of restrictive or "negative" covenants under the terms and conditions of the revolving credit facility. Although it does not contain any restrictions on disposal of assets or closure of stores other than a restriction prohibiting us from taking action to convey, sell, lease, license, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of, in one transaction or a series of transactions, all or substantially all of our assets, the revolving credit facility restricts us from incurring additional indebtedness, except to the extent provided in the revolving credit facility, from consigning any of our inventories to third parties under a bill and hold, sale or return, sale on approval or other conditional terms of sales and from making any distribution, declaration or payment of any dividend (in cash or other property, other than common stock). It also restricts us from creating, incurring, assuming, or suffering to exist, directly or indirectly, any lien on or with respect to any of our assets and from entering into a merger, consolidation, reorganization, or recapitalization or reclassification of our common stock. Furthermore, the revolving credit facility restricts us from causing, permitting, or suffering, directly or indirectly, any change of control and from suspending or going out of a substantial portion of our business. The definition of change of 14 control set forth in the revolving credit facility includes, among other events, Dmitry Beinus ceasing to be President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Dmitry Beinus ceasing to be the beneficial owner of at least 25% of our common stock or a majority of the members of the Board of Directors not continuing as directors. Because we do not have long-term purchase agreements with any of our vendors, our ability to purchase quality merchandise under favorable terms and conditions is dependent on our being on good business terms with our vendors. Our future success will be significantly dependent on our ability to obtain merchandise that consumers want to buy, particularly designer label and branded merchandise with long-term retail appeal, and to acquire such merchandise under favorable terms and conditions. In fiscal year 2007, our largest ten suppliers accounted for approximately 45% of our inventory purchases. The deterioration of our relationship with any key vendor or vendors could result in delivery delays, merchandise shortages or less favorable terms than we currently enjoy. We deal with our suppliers on an order-by-order basis and have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurances of continued supply or pricing. Our footwear purchases typically involve manufacturing make-ups (shoes made exclusively for our channel) and opportunistic purchases. As our operations expand, our need for off-price inventory will continue to increase. Our inability to obtain a sufficient supply of high margin inventory, to negotiate favorable discount and payment agreements with our suppliers or to make opportunistic purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to retain our existing senior management team and to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will be dependent, to a significant extent, on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. Dmitry Beinus, the founder, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of our company, has primary responsibility for all major business decisions, including expansion into new states and regions, advertising, promotion and marketing activities. The loss of the services of any one of our executive officers, and Mr. Beinus in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our continued growth will depend, in part, on our ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled managerial and merchandising personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain a substantial percentage of our existing personnel, including our Board of Directors, or attract additional qualified personnel in the future. We have one distribution center. The loss or disruption of this center could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Most of the inventory we purchase is shipped directly from vendors to a single centralized distribution center maintained by a third-party operator in Chino, California, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. Because a substantial portion of the inventory first goes through the Chino distribution center, any disruption at this site could negatively impact our receiving and distribution process. Our business interruption insurance may not be invoked or be sufficient to mitigate the financial losses caused by a disruption of this center. We would be adversely affected if our information technology systems were disrupted. Our corporate information technology infrastructure is essential to our distribution process. If our information technology systems were shut down for any reason, such as a natural disaster, power outage or terrorist attack, or if our information technology systems do not operate effectively, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our stores. Our insurance coverage may not be invoked or be sufficient to mitigate the financial losses resulting from a disruption in our information technology systems. Because much of our merchandise originates from foreign sources our business is subject to many of the risks associated with international trade. Many of the vendors with which we conduct business source their products from outside of the United States, particularly China, Brazil and Italy. As a result, we are subject to the risks generally associated with purchasing from foreign suppliers, such as: 15 economic and political instability in countries where these suppliers are located; international hostilities or acts of war or terrorism affecting the United States or foreign countries from which our merchandise is sourced; increases in shipping costs; transportation delays and interruptions, including as a result of increased inspections of import shipments by domestic authorities; work stoppages; adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates; U.S. laws affecting the importation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas and other non-tariff barriers; expropriation or nationalization; changes in local government administration and governmental policies; changes in import duties or quotas; compliance with trade and foreign tax laws; and local business practices, including compliance with local laws and with domestic and international labor standards. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not disrupt our supply of directly-sourced goods or otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. Our profitability may be negatively impacted by inventory shrinkage caused by customer and employee theft. The retail industry is subject to theft by customers and employees. Because we use a self-service format, where shoppers have access to both shoes of a pair, we must maintain substantial store security. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer from significant inventory shrinkage in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive retail footwear market. The retail footwear market is highly competitive, and we expect the level of competition to increase. We compete with off-price and discount retailers (e.g., Nordstrom Rack, Payless Shoe Source, Ross Dress for Less and Famous Footwear), branded retail outlets (e.g., Nine West, Reebok and adidas), national and regional retail stores (e.g., DSW Shoe Warehouse, Nordstrom, Marshalls, Macy's, Sears, J.C. Penney, Loehmann's and Mervyn's), traditional shoe stores and mass merchants. Many of these competitors have stores in the markets in which we now operate and in which we may expand. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. In addition, new participants may enter the off-price segment of the footwear market in the future. Competitive pressures resulting from competitors' pricing policies could have a material adverse affect on our gross margins. As a result, we may face greater competition from other national, regional or local retailers and we may not be able to compete successfully with existing and new competitors. Our inability to effectively respond to such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal year 2007, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we believe we have remediated; however, there can be no assurance that in the future a material weakness may be identified that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX 404"), our management is required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the preparation of the Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2007, we identified and reported a material weakness in the control environment and a material weakness related to preparation of account analysis, account summaries and account reconciliations. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to remediate the material weaknesses previously identified and reported, we cannot assure that the remedial steps taken will be effective or that other material weaknesses will not be identified in future periods. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. 16 The price of our common stock may be volatile. Our common stock is thinly traded making it difficult to sell large amounts. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to factors such as quarterly variations in operating results, operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, changes in financial estimates, changes in market valuations of competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of a material nature, additions or departures of key personnel, future sales of common stock and stock volume fluctuations. Also, general political and economic conditions such as a recession or interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 