ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsMaking or continuing an investment in securities issued by the Company, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following are the key risk factors that affect us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company.Economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial conditionFrom December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession with weaker than expected recovery to date. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have improved, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged or deteriorating economic conditions could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:•A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services that we offer;•A decrease in net interest income derived from our lending and deposit gathering activities;•A decrease in the value of our investment securities;•A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;•An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; and•An increase in the number of customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.Concentration in real estate loans in our footprint may increase our exposure to credit riskAt December 31, 2013, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $7.8 billion, or 36% of total loans. While our concentration of commercial real estate loans in New York has steadily decreased over the past three 25years, from 68% at December 31, 2010 to 48% at December 31, 2013, a large portion of this portfolio remains concentrated in this geographical area. At December 31, 2013, our portfolio of residential real estate loans (including home equity loans) totaled $6.2 billion, or 29% of total loans. While our concentration in these loans in New York has steadily decreased over the past three years, from 67% at December 31, 2010 to 42% at December 31, 2013, a large portion of this portfolio remains concentrated in this geographical area.A significant weakening in economic conditions in New York, such as unemployment or other factors beyond our control, could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on these loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results. Moreover, while home prices in Upstate New York have not seen the declines that other parts of the country have experienced over the past four to six years, a decline in real estate valuations in New York could lower the value of the collateral securing our residential real estate loans, leading to higher credit losses. Commercial real estate and business loans increase our exposure to credit risksAt December 31, 2013, our portfolio of commercial real estate and business loans totaled $13.1 billion, or 61% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans, which generally expose us to a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment of such loans often depends on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers. Additionally, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. Also, many of our borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential real estate loan.Concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase riskOur success is impacted by the general economic conditions in the geographic areas in which we operate, primarily New York, Western and Eastern Pennsylvania, Connecticut, and Western Massachusetts. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in these markets have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in these markets would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, or other factors beyond our control could reduce our ability to generate new loans and increase default rates on those loans and otherwise negatively affect our financial results.A large portion of our loan portfolio is acquired and was not underwritten by us at originationAt December 31, 2013, 21% of our loan portfolio was acquired and was not underwritten by us at origination, and therefore is not necessarily reflective of our historical credit risk experience. We performed extensive credit due diligence prior to each acquisition and marked the loans to fair value upon acquisition, with such fair valuation considering expected credit losses that existed at the time of acquisition. Additionally, we evaluate the expected cash flows of these loans on a quarterly basis. However, there is a risk that credit losses could be larger than currently anticipated, thus adversely affecting our earnings.One-third of our assets are invested in securities, with over 16% in commercial mortgage-backed securities, 13% in collateralized loan obligations and 8% in asset-backed securitiesApproximately one-third of our assets have been invested in securities, currently with over 16% in commercial mortgage-backed securities, 13% in collateralized loan obligations and 8% in asset backed securities. These securities are structured investments with complex formulas to determine the amount of cash flows that get paid to holders of each security type within the various structures. Changes in expected cash flows due to factors such as changing credit experience of the underlying collateral, changes in interest rates or changes in prepayment speeds could affect the amount of interest and principal cash flows we receive and the amount of interest income 26that we recognize. Additionally, given the structural complexities inherent in these types of securities, there could be cash flow provisions that we may not fully understand.The Volcker Rule collateralized loan obligation provisions could result in adverse consequences for us, including lower earnings, lower tangible capital and/or lower regulatory capitalThe so-called “Volcker Rule” provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act restrict the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, to sponsor or invest in private funds or to engage in certain types of proprietary trading. The Federal Reserve adopted final rules implementing the Volcker Rule in December, 2013. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the Volcker Rule and the final rules adopted thereunder. We own $1.4 billion of collateralized loan obligation ("CLO") securities with a weighted average yield of 3.2% that are subject to the Volcker Rule. If we decide to sell or are required to sell these securities, our future net interest income could be adversely impacted if our alternative use for these funds yields a lower rate. A 100 basis point reduction in yield upon reinvestment into similar duration securities would result in reduced net interest income of $14 million, or three cents per diluted common share. While there is a potential for additional regulatory guidance or a legislative ruling that would enable banks to continue to hold CLO securities under the Volcker Rule, to the extent this does not materialize nor do the regulators accept any structural solutions put forth by the financial services industry, we are currently subject to potentially significant price movements in these securities which could adversely impact our tangible capital. For instance, a hypothetical 10% reduction in current CLO market prices would result in a $140 million loss to our current CLO securities valuation. Since these securities are currently held as available for sale, the resulting change in Other Comprehensive Income ("OCI"), after tax, would be approximately $90 million. Further, if we decide to sell these securities or if it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell such securities before recovery, we may recognize losses that could adversely impact our regulatory capital ratios. An after tax loss of $90 million would lower regulatory capital by 34 basis points. Our provision for credit losses may be insufficientOur customers might not repay their loans according to the original terms, and the collateral securing the payment of those loans might be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Hence, we may experience significant loan losses, which could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on loan quality reviews, past loss experience, and an evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease our net income.Our emphasis on the origination of commercial real estate and business loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating our allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase the amount of these loans, additional or increased provisions for credit losses may be necessary and as a result would decrease our earnings.Bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial condition.We accept deposits that do not have a fixed term and which may be withdrawn by the customer at any time for any reasonAt December 31, 2013, we had $23.0 billion of deposit liabilities that have no maturity and, therefore, may be withdrawn by the depositor at any time. These deposit liabilities include our checking, savings, and money market deposit accounts. The withdrawal of more deposits than we anticipate could have an adverse impact on our profitability as this source of funding, if not replaced by similar deposit funding, would need to be replaced with 27wholesale funding, the sale of interest earning assets, or a combination of these two actions. The replacement of deposit funding with wholesale funding could cause our overall cost of funding to increase, which would reduce our net interest income. A loss of interest earning assets could also reduce our net interest income. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditionOur results of operations and financial condition could be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our financial results depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities. While we have modeled rising interest rate scenarios using historic data and such scenarios result in an increase in our net interest income, our interest-bearing liabilities may reprice or mature more quickly than modeled, thus resulting in a decrease in our net interest income.Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our investment securities. Generally, the value of our investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of our investment securities, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity or our earnings if the decrease in fair value is deemed to be other than temporary.Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of our loans and mortgage related securities. Decreases in interest rates resulting from actions taken by the Federal Reserve has caused an increase in prepayments of our loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. As prepayment speeds on mortgage related securities increase, the premium amortization increases prospectively, and additionally there would be an adjustment required under the application of the interest method of income recognition, and will therefore result in lower net interest income. We recorded two such adverse adjustments to our mortgage related securities in 2012 totaling $25 million. Under these circumstances, we are also subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on our existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.A reduction in our credit rating to below investment grade could adversely impact us or the holders of our securitiesWe are regularly evaluated by ratings agencies. Their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and factors outside of our control such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the broader economy. In light of the difficulties facing the financial services industry, there can be no assurances that we will maintain our current ratings. In December 2013, Moody's placed First Niagara Financial Group, Inc.'s long-term issuer rating of Baa2 (two notches above investment grade) on review for downgrade. While this credit action had no impact on our ability to continue serving our customers, a future downgrade to below investment grade could have adverse consequences for us. In addition to a negative perception by our customers, a downgrade of our debt securities to below investment grade could result in adverse price movements of such securities and higher borrowing costs on any debt securities we issue in the future. A downgrade of our holding company below investment grade triggers a breach of covenant on our holding company line of credit, resulting in a possibility of limiting our access to that credit line. While this line of credit could potentially be renegotiated to cure the breach, it could result in higher interest and non-usage rates as well as additional fees.If we continue to grow and our total consolidated assets reach $50 billion, we will become subject to stricter prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act for large bank holding companiesIn December 2011, the Federal Reserve, pursuant to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, proposed rules applying stricter prudential standards to, among others, bank holding companies having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The stricter prudential standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity requirements, risk-management requirements, stress testing of capital, credit limits and early remediation regimes. Only the stress testing of capital rules have been adopted in final form. The Federal Reserve is also required by the Dodd-Frank Act to adopt rules regarding credit exposure reporting by these institutions. The Dodd-28Frank Act permits, but does not require, the Federal Reserve to apply to these institutions heightened prudential standards in a number of other areas, including short-term debt limits and enhanced public disclosure.Our total consolidated assets were $37.6 billion at December 31, 2013. If our assets reach the $50 billion threshold, whether driven by organic growth or future acquisitions, we will become subject to the stricter prudential standards required by the Dodd-Frank Act and will incur higher levels of expense to comply with these standards.See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.Strong competition may limit our growth and profitabilityCompetition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors (whether regional or national institutions) have substantially greater resources and lending limits than us and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market areas.We may not be able to attract or retain skilled peopleOur success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of financial institutions. Our compensation plans are an important element in the attraction and retention of key employees. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire these people or to retain them.We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervisionWe are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the financial system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. As of January 2014, just over 50% of the regulatory rules (implementation or changes) have been issued for the Dodd-Frank Act, which illustrates the continued and on-going need requirement of focus for financial institutions. Other changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. For example, since the establishment of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has been focused on numerous consumer-based regulations, the exam focus of our regulators has evolved to include greater scrutiny and annual examinations of previously less reviewed regulations, such as the Servicemember's Civil Relief Act and the Flood Disaster Protection Act. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in civil or criminal sanctions by state and federal agencies, the loss of FDIC insurance, the revocation of our banking charter, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.Any future FDIC insurance premium increases may adversely affect our earningsThe amount that is assessed by the FDIC for deposit insurance is set by the FDIC based on a variety of factors. These include the DIF’s reserve ratio, the Bank’s assessment base, which is equal to average consolidated total 29assets minus average tangible equity, and various inputs into the FDIC’s assessment rate calculation, including the Bank’s:•CAMELS rating,•criticized and classified assets,•capital levels, including the Tier 1 leverage ratio,•higher-risk assets, defined as construction and development loans, leveraged loans and securities, nontraditional mortgages and subprime consumer loans, and higher risk securitizations,•ratio of core earnings to average assets,•ratio of core deposits to total liabilities,•liquidity ratio (as defined by the FDIC),•our projected shortfall (in event of failure) between projected insured deposits and the projected assets available to pay off projected insured deposits as a percentage of current domestic deposits,•balance sheet composition,•amount of unsecured debt, including subordinated debt and debt issues by another depository institution, and•amount of brokered deposits.If there are additional financial institution failures we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Such increases or required prepayments of FDIC insurance premiums may adversely impact our earnings. See “Supervision and Regulation–Deposit Insurance” for more information about FDIC insurance premiums.We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other paymentsWe are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from the Bank. The Company's ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is substantially dependent upon the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the Company. Subject to the Bank meeting or exceeding regulatory capital requirements, the prior approval of the OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by the Bank in any calendar year would exceed the sum of the Bank's net profits for that year and its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to surplus. Federal law also prohibits the Bank from paying dividends that would be greater than its undivided profits after deducting statutory bad debt in excess of its allowance for loan losses. The Bank paid dividends of $175 million and $45 million to the Company during 2013 and 2012, respectively. Under the foregoing dividend restrictions, the Bank could pay additional dividends of approximately $464 million to the Company without obtaining regulatory approvals, however, this amount would be limited to $261 million to maintain its "well-capitalized" status.If the Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us, due to a large loss or other event that would eliminate the dividend availability, and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See “Payment of Dividends” above under “Supervision and Regulation.”In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.Our goodwill could become impaired in the future. If our goodwill were to become impaired, it could limit the ability of our bank to pay dividends to our holding company, adversely impacting the holding company’s liquidity and ability to pay dividends or repay debt.The most significant assumptions affecting our goodwill impairment evaluation are variables including the market price of our common stock, projections of earnings, and the control premium above our current stock price that an acquirer would pay to obtain control of the Company. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or between annual impairment tests if a triggering event occurs. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of goodwill will be reduced by the amount of 30the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common shares or our regulatory capital levels, but such an impairment loss could significantly restrict the Bank’s ability to make dividend payments to us without prior regulatory approval. At December 31, 2013, the book value of our goodwill was $2.4 billion.At February 24, 2014, the market value of a share of our common stock was $8.82, representing a decline from the $11.05 market value of our common stock at November 1, 2013 (the most recent time we have evaluated our goodwill balances for impairment). When we performed our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of November 1, 2013, we concluded that our goodwill balance was not impaired. The market value of a share of our common stock could be an indicator that an event has occurred which could be indicative of goodwill impairment, which may require us to reevaluate goodwill for impairment prior to the next annual test. A goodwill impairment charge could impact the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to the Company. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity Risk” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data–Note 11. Capital” for further details.We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operationsWe are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees, or operational errors, including clerical or record keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems or disclosure of confidential proprietary information of our customers. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, sales practices, customer treatment, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by the Company can result in negative public opinion about our other business.If personal, nonpublic, confidential, or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and the large transaction volumes may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that we (or our vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in a diminished ability to operate our business, potential liability to clients, reputational damage, and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, perhaps materially.We may not be able to successfully realize the benefits from our technology transformation strategy, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitabilityWe have decided to upgrade our information technology infrastructure to increase revenue and operating leverage and decrease our overall technology operating expenses. We are in the early stages of planning for such 31initiatives, and estimate the total investment to be $200 million to $250 million over a three to four year period. Our Board of Directors and Executive Management will maintain ongoing monitoring of these projects.There is risk related to our time line and cost estimates. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate the technology needed within our estimated time line and cost estimate, which could adversely impact the ability to increase revenue or to implement new technology solutions in an efficient manner. While we have instituted a governance and tollgate process at the both the Board of Directors and Executive Management that will continue to monitor cost and benefit estimates throughout the implementation process, there can be no assurances that we will realize the expected benefits in a cost efficient manner.We rely on third-party relationships to conduct our business, which subjects us to strategic, reputation, compliance and transaction (operational) riskWe rely on third party service providers to leverage subject matter expertise and industry best practice, provide enhanced products and services, and reduce costs. Although there are benefits in entering into third party relationships with vendors, there are risks associated with such activities. When entering a third party relationship, the risks associated with that activity are not passed to the third party but remain our responsibility. Management and the Board of Directors are ultimately responsible for the activities conducted by vendors. To that end, Management is accountable for the review and evaluation of all new and existing vendor relationships. Management is responsible for ensuring that adequate controls are in place at First Niagara and our vendors to protect the bank and its customers from the risks associated with vendor relationships. Increased risk most often arises from poor planning, oversight, and control on the part of the bank and inferior performance or service on the part of the third party, and may result in legal costs or loss of business. While we have implemented a vendor management program to actively manage the risks associated with the use of third party service providers, any problems caused by third party service providers could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and to conduct our business. Replacing third party vendors could also take a long period of time and result in increased expenses.We are exposed to fraud in many aspects of the services and products that we provide. We offer debit cards and credit cards to our banking customers and plan to expand our online banking and online account opening capabilities in 2014. Historically, we have experienced operational losses from fraud committed by third parties that steal credentials from our customers or merchants utilized by our customers. We have little ability to manage how merchants or our banking customers protect the credentials that our customers have to transact with us. When customers and merchants do not adequately protect customer account credentials, our risks and potential costs increase. As (a) our sales of these services and products expand, (b) those who are committing fraud become more sophisticated and more determined, and (c) our banking services and product offerings expand, our operational losses could increase. There are risks resulting from the complex models we utilize as part of our planning and decision making processesLike most banks, we use models for a broad range of activities, including but not limited to: evaluating credit exposures; investment securities; measuring risk; deposit behavior to changing rates; and determining capital and reserve adequacy. We have implemented a model risk governance framework commensurate with business activities, and the extent and complexity of the models used considering the materiality of model risk at an individual model level and in the aggregate. While models can improve business decisions, they can also increase our risk profile due to the potential for adverse consequences from decisions based on models that are either incorrect or misinterpreted. Such adverse consequences include poor decision making leading to lower revenues, higher expenses (including provisions for loan losses) and inaccurate financial reporting. 32We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure or interruption of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure or interruption will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. A breach in security of our systems, including a breach resulting from our newer online capabilities such as mobile banking, increases the potential for fraud losses. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share valueCertain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and state and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of the Company without our board of directors' approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company, including shares of our common stock or shares of our preferred stock were those shares to become entitled to vote upon the election of two directors because of missed dividends, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer “controls” the bank holding company. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any bank, including the Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. Taken as a whole, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in the Company being less attractive to a potential acquirer and thus could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. 33Although management has established business continuity and disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to risk of environmental liability when we take title to property In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to real estate. As a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 