D. RISK FACTORS. Technology risk The new advanced products that we are developing incorporate complex and evolving technologies that require substantial expenditures and resources. However, these new products may fail to be accepted at the rates or levels we anticipate and we may fail to realize the expected benefits from our investments in these new technologies. We may experience greater variability in our operating results than in the past, particularly depending on the general economic conditions and the pace of development and acceptance of new technologies. Changes in the communications industry are expected to increase competition and change the competitive landscape and may adversely affect our operating results. Operating risk We conduct our manufacturing and sales operations through joint ventures established between us and Mainland Chinese parties. Any deterioration of these strategic relationships may have an adverse effect on our operations. Concentration of credit risk We perform ongoing credit evaluations of each customer’s financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, our five largest accounts receivable accounted for approximately 47% and 63% of our total accounts receivable. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the government, economic reform policies since 1978 have emphasized decentralization and the utilization of market mechanisms in the development of the Chinese economy. We have significantly benefited from such reforms, as the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications since 1994 has opened the telecommunications equipment market of China to all kinds of manufacturers. Our management believes that the basic principles underlying the reforms will continue to provide an acceptable framework of the PRC’s political and economic systems. In addition, we currently see no evidence that this refinement and readjustment process may adversely affect, directly or indirectly, our operations in the future. -7- Table of Contents As substantially all of our operations are conducted in Mainland China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in Mainland China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi (“Rmb”) which must be converted into other currencies before remittance outside Mainland China. Both the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies abroad require the approval of the Mainland Chinese government. Our currency is not freely convertible. The State Administration for Exchange Control (“SAEC”), under the authority of the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (“CFETS”) market. Since substantially all of our raw materials are provided by local suppliers using Renminbi and the majority of our expenses is denominated in Renminbi, restrictions on currency conversions did not materially affect our operations. Also, since we do not expect to require any raw material that are not permitted or are limited to purchase using foreign currencies, our management believes that such restriction will not materially affect our operations in the future. However, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments, and our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to restrictions on the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars and, as a result, may be restricted to make distributions to us. We depend on Chinese factories. We have no direct business operation, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries located in China, and our results of operations and financial condition are currently solely dependent on our subsidiaries’ factories in China. We currently maintain fire, casualty and theft insurance aggregating approximately $7.0 million covering various of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment, and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not sufficiently cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flooding or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. However, we have not materially suffered from such damage or loss to date. -8- Table of Contents Taxation The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes on an entity basis on income arising in or derived from the tax jurisdictions in which they operate. The Company, QXMC and QXCH were incorporated under the International Business Companies Act of the BVI and, accordingly, are exempted from the payment of BVI income taxes. The Company’s branch office registered in Hong Kong is subject to Hong Kong income taxes at a rate of 17.5%. At present, substantially all of the Group’s income is generated in Mainland China by QXCI and CECT. QXPL and QXCI, being located in Huizhou, Mainland China, are subject to Mainland Chinese enterprise income taxes at a rate of 15%. QXCI was exempted from Mainland Chinese enterprise income tax for two years starting from January 1, 2003, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in state income tax and full exemption in local income tax for the following three years. CECT is regarded as a “Hi-tech” enterprise by the Mainland Chinese government and is subject to Mainland Chinese enterprise income taxes at a rate of 15%. CECT was exempted from Mainland Chinese enterprise income tax for the period from May 22, 2000 to December 31, 2002, and is entitled to a 50% reduction in state income tax and full exemption in local income tax for the following three years. The corporate income tax rates for QXCI and CECT, both Foreign Investment Enterprises in Mainland China, may increase in the near future with the expected unification of corporate income tax rates for local and foreign companies. We depend upon certain key personnel to manage our company. Our ability to successfully carry out our business plans continues to be largely dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and executive officers, particularly our chairman, Rui Lin Wu. We have not entered into any employment agreement with Mr. Wu and the loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Further, we do not maintain any key-person life insurance on his life, with proceeds payable to us. We are controlled by one of our shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Rui Lin Wu, our chief executive officer and chairman, and members of his family beneficially own or control approximately 36.2% of our outstanding shares as of June 20, 2006. Accordingly, he has controlling influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without his consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. -9- Table of Contents Our holding company structure creates restrictions on our payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may adversely affect the amount received by U.S. shareholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon them. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or China would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or China, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about public companies organized in the United States. -10- Table of Contents Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. ITEM 