Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. You should carefully consider the material risk factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of the events described below occur, the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the Company’s stock price may decline. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, has and will adversely affect our business and financial results. The economic condition of the United States and the markets that we serve has experienced a prolonged slowdown. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at relatively high levels and is not expected to normalize in the near future. The economic downturn in the Charlotte region has generally been less severe than the economic slowdown experienced in other larger metropolitan areas of the country. However, the Charlotte region did experience decreases in hou sing prices, an increased unemployment rate, decreased housing starts and housing sales and commercial activity. Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on local economic conditions in the Charlotte and North Georgia regions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. Weakness in our market areas could adversely affect our earnings and consequently our financial condition because borrowers may not be able to repay their loans, the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline, and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require us to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our net income. Due to our limited market areas, negative economic conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution that is able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. 10 Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. We face numerous competitors in both our community banking and mortgage banking operations in the Charlotte and North Georgia regions, which are our primary market areas. We compete for loan and deposit growth with large banks that have a regional or a national presence, other community banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, brokerage and insurance firms, and other nonbank businesses, such as retailers that engage in consumer financing activities. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not provide. Events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio has real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could result in an increase in the number of borrowers that default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loan. When we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings an d shareholders’ equity are adversely affected. We have added a significant number of loans secured by real estate over the past five years from new relationships as we have entered new markets through acquisitions and de novo offices. As a result, our loan portfolio may not be as seasoned as the loan portfolios of our competitors in some of these new markets. Should local real estate markets continue to weaken, we could experience higher default rates resulting in increased levels of nonperforming loans, which would likely result in higher loan losses and reduced earnings. Nonresidential loans increase our exposure to credit risks. Over the last several years, we have increased our nonresidential lending in order to improve the yield and reduce the duration of our assets. These loans may expose us to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because repayment often depends on the successful operations and earnings of the borrowers. Additionally, these loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. Nonperforming assets consist of nonaccrual loans, loans 90 or more days delinquent, and other real estate owned. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in the following ways: 1) we do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned; 2) there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned; and 3) the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activities. As such, an increase in nonperforming assets will have an adverse effect on future earnings. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, then our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of allowance for loan losses, we review our loan loss and delinquency experience, we evaluate current local economic conditions, and we analyze the collateral position of our loan portfolio. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in increases to our loan loss allowance. Material additions to our loan loss allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Financial reform legislation recently enacted will, among other things, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. In 2010 the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This new law significantly changes the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the OTS will cease to exist one year from the date of the new law’s enactment. All functions of OTS relating to federal savings associations, and all rulemaking authority for federal and state savings associations will be transferred to Office of Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“FRB”) will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS. Savings and loan holding companies, such as the Company, will be subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements imposed on bank holding companies by the FRB. Currently savings and loan holding companies do not have minimum regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage, or Tier 1capital, and risk-based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities (“TPS”). TPS issued before May 19, 2010 by a bank holding company that had total assets of less than $15 billion as of December 31, 2009 are permanently grandfathered. The Company’s $15 million of TPS will be grandfathered under this legislation. Effective one year after the date of enactment is a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and noninterest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give common stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the FRB to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. 12 Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program may increase costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. The EESA, as augmented by the ARRA, was intended to stabilize and provide liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP Capital Purchase Program”) may result in increased regulation of the industry in general and/or TARP Capital Purchase Program participants in particular. Compliance with such regulations may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to financial and market weakness could affect us adversely. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed laws and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. However, there can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and prof itability. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because the Company’s interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, a decrease in interest rates generally could result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. We are also subject t o reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. As such, decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in market interest rates, would have an adverse effect on shareholders’ equity. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our operations by actively pursuing business development opportunities. We may seek whole bank or branch acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · the ability to finance an acquisition and possible ownership and economic dilution to existing stockholders; · diversion of management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired institution; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 13 We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful and following any future merger or acquisition, after giving it effect, we may not achieve financial results comparable to or better than our historical experience. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect us. Our success is, and expected to remain, highly dependent on our senior management team and key officers. As a community bank, our management’s extensive knowledge of and relationships in the community generate a significant portion of our business. Successful execution of our business strategy will continue to place significant demands on our management and the loss of any such person’s services may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our trading volume is low compared with larger financial institutions. The trading volume in the Company’s stock is comparable to other similarly-sized banks. However, this trading volume is low compared with larger financial institutions. As such, the liquidity of the Company’s stock is more limited than other companies which may adversely affect the price at which shares of our common stock may be sold. Our information systems may experience a security breach, computer virus, or disruption of service. Citizens South Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. While we use qualified third party vendors to test and audit our network, our network could become vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. Citizens South Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that Citizens South Bank’s activities or t he activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose Citizens South Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in Citizens South Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. A substantial decline in the value of our FHLB common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the FHLB of Atlanta in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including the FHLB of Atlanta, could be substantially diminished. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB of Atlanta common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. A number of factors, or combinations of factors, could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value, or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that w ould render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. An other-than-temporary impairment write-down would reduce our earnings. 14 Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Citizens South Banking Corporation without the consent of its Board of Directors. As a Citizens South Banking Corporation stockholder, you may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then-prevailing price of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Citizens South Banking Corporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove Citizens South Banking Corporation’s current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of its common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition plan shares. Citizens South Banking Corporation has entered into employment agreements and change of control agreements with certain executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation or Citizens South Bank. Citizens South Banking Corporation also has adopted plans to permit additional issuances of stock options and recognition plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. These payments will have the effect of increasing the c osts of acquiring Citizens South Banking Corporation, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. The pre-tax gain we recorded upon the acquisition of Bank of Hiawassee is a preliminary amount and could be decreased. We accounted for the Bank of Hiawassee acquisition under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of Bank of Hiawassee at fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, particularly illiquid assets and liabilities, is a complicated process involving a significant amount of judgment regarding estimates and assumptions. Based on the preliminary adjustments made, the fair value of the assets we acquired exceeded the fair value of the liabilities assumed which resulted in an initial $18.7 million pre - -tax gain for our company. Under purchase accounting, we have up to one year after the acquisition to finalize the fair value adjustments, meaning that until then we could materially adjust the preliminary fair value estimates of Hiawassee’s assets and liabilities based on new or updated information. Such adjustments could reduce the extent by which the assets acquired exceeded the liabilities assumed and would result in a decrease to the pre-tax gain that we recorded as of the acquisition date. We may incur loan losses related to Bank of Hiawassee that are materially greater than we originally projected. Bank of Hiawassee had a significant amount of deteriorating and nonperforming loans that ultimately led to the closure of the bank. When we placed our bid with the FDIC to assume the assets and liabilities of Bank of Hiawassee, we estimated an amount of future loan losses that we believed would occur and factored those expected losses into our bid amount. Estimating loan losses on an entire portfolio of loans is a difficult process that is dependent on a significant amount of judgment and estimates, especially for loan portfolios like Hiawassee’s with a high concentration of deteriorating and nonperforming loans. ; If we materially underestimated the extent of those losses, it could result in additional losses would be reflected in the Company’s provision for loan losses. 15 We may experience difficulty in managing the loan portfolio acquired from Bank of Hiawassee within the limits of the loss protection provided by the FDIC. In connection with the Bank of Hiawassee acquisition, Citizens South Bank entered into loss-sharing agreements with the FDIC that covered approximately $231.1 million of Bank of Hiawassee’s assets. Citizens South Bank will share in the losses, which begin with the first dollar of loss incurred, of the assets covered by the loss-sharing agreements, which include residential mortgage loans and nonresidential loans (collectively referred to as “covered loans”). Pursuant to the terms of the loss-sharing agreement, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse Citizens South Bank 80% of eligible losse s of up to $102 million with respect to covered loans. The FDIC will reimburse Citizens South Bank for 95% of eligible losses in excess of $102 million with respect to covered loans. Citizens South Bank has a corresponding obligation to reimburse the FDIC for 80% or 95%, as applicable, of eligible recoveries with respect to covered loans. Although we have expertise in asset resolution, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately manage the covered loan portfolios within the limits of the loss protection provided by the FDIC. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of additional failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. We would be subject to many of the same risks that exist with respect to our acquisition of Bank of Hiawassee. In addition, because FDIC-assisted transactions are structured in a manner that do not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 