ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the shares of Citizens South Banking Corporation common stock. Citizens South Banking Corporation's Commercial Real Estate, Multi-Family Construction, and Commercial Business Loans Expose It to Increased Lending Risks. At December 31, 2005, Citizens South Banking Corporation's portfolio of commercial real estate, multifamily, and construction loans totaled $272.6 million, or 57.56% of total gross loans, and its portfolio of commercial business loans totaled $30.1 million, or 6.36% of total gross loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of Citizens South Banking Corporation's borrowers have more than one commercial real estate or multi-family loan outstanding with it. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose it to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Citizens South Banking Corporation May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of its Recent Merger. On October 31, 2005, Citizens South Bank completed its acquisition of Trinity Bank. The success of the merger will depend on, among other things, the Company's ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to combine the businesses of Citizens South Bank and Trinity Bank in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of Citizens South Bank or Trinity Bank or result in decreased revenues from any loss of customers. If the Company is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Citizens South Banking Corporation's Financial Success Depends, in Part, on the Successful Integration of Trinity Bank Following the Merger. Citizens South Banking Corporation's future growth and profitability depends, in part, on its ability to manage the combined operations of Citizens South Bank and Trinity Bank. For the acquisition to be successful, the Company will have to succeed in combining the personnel and operations of Citizens South Bank and Trinity Bank and in achieving expense savings by eliminating redundant operations. Citizens South Banking Corporation cannot assure you that its plan to integrate and operate the combined operations will be timely or efficient, or that it will successfully retain existing customer relationships of Trinity Bank. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Citizens South Banking Corporation's Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 7 Citizens South Banking Corporation's results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Its results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, a decrease in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in the Company's net interest income. Based on results generated by its interest rate risk model, an immediate and sustained decrease of 200 basis points throughout the yield curve would decrease its annual net interest income by 17.0% for the period ended December 31, 2005. The assumptions used in the model do not provide for actions that may be taken by management during the period to offset the effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Citizens South Banking Corporation's interest-earning assets, and in particular its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2005, Citizens South Banking Corporation's investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $123.7 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $1.6 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity. Citizens South Banking Corporation also is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Citizens South Banking Corporation's Stock-Based Benefit Plans May Dilute Your Ownership Interest. Citizens South Banking Corporation has adopted stock option plans and recognition and retention plans. These stock-based benefit plans can be funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock or through open market purchases by Citizens South Banking Corporation. The Company currently is purchasing shares of its common stock in a Board-authorized share repurchase program. Stockholders will experience a reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares, instead of repurchased shares, are used to fund stock option exercises and stock awards. Citizens South Banking Corporation's Recognition and Retention Plans Will Continue to be a Significant Cost, Which Will Reduce Profitability and Stockholders' Equity. Citizens South Banking Corporation has adopted recognition and retention plans. Under the plans, its officers and directors have been awarded, at no cost to them other than customary taxes for which they are responsible, shares of common stock. The shares of common stock awarded under the recognition plans are expensed by Citizens South Banking Corporation over their vesting period at the fair market value of the shares on the date they are awarded. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve. Citizens South Banking Corporation's board of directors has no current intention to sell control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. Provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Citizens South Banking Corporation without the consent of its board of directors. As a Citizens South Banking Corporation stockholder, you may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then-prevailing price of Citizens South Banking Corporation's common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: 8 Office of Thrift Supervision regulations. The charter of Citizens South Bank includes a provision that, for a period of five years after the mutual-to-stock conversion, prohibits any person from acquiring or offering to acquire, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of any class of equity security of Citizens South Bank. The Company completed the mutual-to-stock conversion of its mutual holding company on September 30, 2002. Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Citizens South Banking Corporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove Citizens South Banking Corporation's current board of directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of its common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Citizens South Banking Corporation's bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the board of directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition plan shares. Citizens South Banking Corporation has entered into employment agreements and change of control agreements with certain executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation or Citizens South Bank. Citizens South Banking Corporation also has adopted plans to permit additional issuances of stock options and recognition plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. These payments will have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring Citizens South Banking Corporation, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 9 