ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. The United States economy is in recession. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States economy entered a recession in the fourth quarter of 2007. Throughout the course of 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, economic conditions continued to worsen, due in large part to the fallout from the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market. While we did not originate or invest in sub-prime mortgages, our lending business is tied, in large part, to the housing market. Declines in home prices, increases in foreclosures and higher unemployment have adversely affected the credit performance of our real estate-related loans, resulting in the write-down of asset values. The continuing housing slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing, further declines in home prices, and increased delinquencies on our construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Further, the ongoing concern about the stability of the financial markets in general has caused many lenders to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. These conditions may also cause a further reduction in loan demand, and increases in our non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. 7 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, a decrease in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. Based on results generated by its interest rate risk model at December 31, 2008, a hypothetical, immediate and sustained decrease of 300 basis points throughout the yield curve would decrease its annual net interest income by 5.8%. The assumptions used in the model do not provide for actions that may be taken by management during the period to offset the effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income. We are also subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s interest-earning assets, and in particular its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $109.2 million. Unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $25,000 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. The slowdown in our local economy could impair the ability of our customers to repay their loans. We have added a significant number of loans over the past five years from new relationships as we have entered new markets through acquisitions and de novo offices. As a result, our loan portfolio may not be as seasoned as the loan portfolios of our competitors in some of these new markets. Should local real estate markets or economies continue to weaken, we will likely experience higher default rates resulting in increased levels of non-performing loans, which would likely result in higher loan losses and reduced earnings. The Company’s commercial real estate loan portfolio could expose the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, Citizens South Banking Corporation’s portfolio of commercial real estate, multifamily, and construction loans totaled $393.1 million, or 62.7% of total gross loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operations and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of the Company’s borrowers have more than one commercial loan outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose the Company to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. Further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2008, our investment portfolio included a $1.0 million trust preferred collateralized debt obligation. During 2008, we recognized a $468,000 charge for the other-than-temporary impairment of the trust preferred security. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. An other-than-temporary impairment write-down would reduce our earnings. 8 Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. We face numerous competitors in both our community banking and mortgage banking operations in the Charlotte, North Carolina metropolitan area, which is our primary market area. We compete for loan and deposit growth with large banks that have a regional or a national presence, other community banks, de novo financial institutions, thrifts or savings institutions, credit unions, brokerage and insurance firms, and other nonbank businesses, such as retailers that engage in consumer financing activities. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not provide. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, then our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of allowance for loan losses, we review our loan loss and delinquency experience, we evaluate current local economic conditions, and we analyze the collateral position of our loan portfolio. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in increases to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to financial and market weakness could affect us adversely. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. Specifically, Congress adopted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, under which the U.S. Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to businesses and consumers and to support the economy. In addition, Congress temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. The FDIC has also announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and lawyers’ trust accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. Finally, in February 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was enacted, which is intended to expand and establish government spending programs and provide certain tax cuts to stimulate the economy. The U.S. Government continues to evaluate and develop various programs and initiatives designed to stabilize the financial and housing markets and stimulate the economy, including the U.S. Treasury’s recently announced Financial Stability Plan and the recently announced foreclosure prevention program. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. Our FDIC insurance premiums have increased, and may continue to increase, because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 9 Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources of the holding company. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $73.6 million of FHLB advances outstanding. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Citizens South Banking Corporation without the consent of its Board of Directors. As a Citizens South Banking Corporation stockholder, you may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then-prevailing price of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Citizens South Banking Corporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove Citizens South Banking Corporation’s current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of its common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition plan shares. Citizens South Banking Corporation has entered into employment agreements and change of control agreements with certain executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation or Citizens South Bank. Citizens South Banking Corporation also has adopted plans to permit additional issuances of stock options and recognition plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. These payments will have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring Citizens South Banking Corporation, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s stock-based benefit plans may dilute your ownership interest. Citizens South Banking Corporation has adopted stock option plans and recognition and retention plans. These stock-based benefit plans can be funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock or through open market purchases by the Company, subject to approval by the U.S. Treasury Department. Stockholders will experience a reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares, instead of repurchased shares, are used to fund stock option exercises and stock awards. ITEM 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 10 ITEM 