ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a large investment in fulfillment and computer technology equipment as well as long term building leases. A severe or prolonged economic downturn affecting our customers’ unit volume sales could negatively impact our operating results. 8 The overall economy experienced a downturn in the later part of 2008, which continued throughout 2009. Economic forecasts have not resulted in a consensus of when the downturn will subside or if it will during 2010. Innotrac provides sufficient capacity in its fulfillment operations and electronic data processing systems to support growth in our customers’ business and service those customers during seasonal volume increases. The investment in that capacity can result in an underutilization in our invested assets during a significant or prolonged economic downturn. Furthermore, we lease our buildings with lease terms long enough to secure competitive lease rates, but which expose us to the term of the real property leases limiting our flexibility to reduce fixed capacity for periods of economic downturns. We service varied client business lines and industry verticals which provide some level of protection for such downturns. However, a prolonged or significant multi-vertical downturn could adversely affect our future results. The current economic situation is affecting all of our customers’ business verticals resulting in same quarter 2009 volumes to be below 2008 quarterly volumes for most of our clients. Our ability to achieve improved operating results will be partially effected by the length of continued severity of the current economic downturn. We rely on a small number of large clients. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, or if we experience unanticipated costs implementing systems and ramping up our services for new clients, our business could be adversely affected. Innotrac focuses on developing long-term contractual relationships with large corporations. A relatively small number of our clients account for a significant portion of our revenues. Our ten largest clients accounted for 76.7% of our revenue in 2009. If we lose one or more of our largest clients, or if revenues from our largest clients decline, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if one of these large clients is lost, or revenues from our largest clients decline, we cannot assure you that we will be able to replace or supplement that client with others that generate comparable revenues or profits. During 2009, five of our largest clients were either materially affected by the economy or were lost due to i) decisions by our client to exit the business entirely or ii) in one case to competition, resulting in an approximate 23% loss in service revenue recorded in 2009 from existing clients. Although we believe growth of our existing client base, improvement in the economic climate and continued cost reduction efforts will partially offset the financial impact of this reduced revenue, our future operating results will rely heavily on our ability to sell new business. Such projected new business may not develop and the future loss of any other large account could adversely affect our future results. Noncompliance with any of the covenants under our revolving credit agreement would allow our lender to declare any outstanding amounts to be immediately due and payable. Our revolving line of credit agreement contains financial, change of ownership control and other restrictive covenants. Noncompliance with any of the covenants would allow the lender to declare any outstanding borrowed amounts to be immediately due and payable. From time to time in the past, we have violated various restrictive covenants, and have been obligated to obtain waivers or amendments from the lender. We were in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant and other reporting requirements of the credit agreement as of December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2010. Based on our projections of 2010 operating performance, we have begun negotiations with our bank to amend the credit agreement to provide availability for certain accounts receivable and inventory wh ich are currently excluded from collateral under the terms of the facility and to avoid projected future noncompliance with certain of the facilities’ financial covenants. Although we expect to agree on satisfactory terms for the amendment with the bank, failure to successfully obtain an amendment or comply with the covenants of the credit agreement in the future could negatively affect our credit ratings or impair our ability to finance our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. Our written contracts generally do not guarantee specific volume levels and can usually be terminated on little notice. Although we have written agreements with most of our clients, our agreements generally do not assure specific volume or revenue levels. In addition, some agreements provide for termination for any reason on short notice. Furthermore, we are contractually bound to our facility leases until their terms expire. If a client terminates its contract suddenly, we may still have obligations under our leases. Our business model requires investment in information systems and logistics equipment designed to service the needs of our clients. In some cases this investment is designed for use in concentrated industry types such as direct response or ecommerce and catalogue distribution. The overall economy experienced a downturn in the later part of 2008 which downturn continued though out 2009. If that downturn in the overall economy increases significantly or becomes concentrated in either of our direct response or ecommerce customer verticals, we could experience an underutilization of already invested facilities and technology specifically designed to meet the needs of those customer verticals. Although we believe servicing multiple types of industries offers stability to our overall revenue generation and utilization of our total operational infrastructure, a significant downturn affecting either of these two specific customer verticals could adversely affect our operating results and require material new investment to reconfigure certain of our operating systems and logistics operations. 9 If we are not able to keep pace with changing technology, our business will be materially adversely affected. Our success depends significantly upon our ability to: ● integrate new clients in a timely and cost efficient manner; ● enhance existing services; ● develop applications to meet our clients’ needs; and ● introduce new services and products to respond to technological developments. If we fail to maintain our technological capabilities or respond effectively to technological changes, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will select, invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis in the future in order to meet our clients’ needs and maintain competitiveness. Our Reno system which provides service to several of our clients is completely customized and therefore not supported by third party providers. We are heavily reliant on a small number of developers. If these developers leave, it could materially adversely affect our business. We provide details about our technology in “Business - Technology” in Item 1. Our common stock lacks liquidity and is held by a small number of investors, one of which is in receivership where its creditors would like to sell our shares as soon as possible. As of December 31, 2009, Innotrac officers and directors owned approximately 46.8% of the outstanding common stock and an institutional shareholder, IPOF Fund, L.P., and its affiliates held approximately 34.3%. These ownership positions have resulted in a lack of liquidity in our common stock. Additionally, if any of Innotrac’s significant shareholders decided to liquidate its or their position, our common stock price would likely decline materially. The United States District Court in Cleveland, Ohio has appointed a receiver to identify and administer the assets of the IPOF Fund, L.P. and its general partner, Mr. David Dadante. Based on information from the receiver, the Company understands that the Fund and Mr. Dadante own 4,321,777 shares of common stock of the Company, representing approximately 34.3% of the total shares outstanding, all of which are held as collateral in margin accounts maintained at several financial institutions. The Company has been engaged in discussions with the receiver in an effort to cause the shares to be sold in a manner that causes as little disruption to the market for Company stock as possible. The Federal Court has prohibited the financial institutions holding Company stock owned by the IPOF Fund and Mr. Dadante i n margin accounts from selling any of these shares through at least June 2, 2010. The court has permitted open market sales by the receiver as he may in his sole discretion determine to be consistent with his duty to maximize the value of the assets of IPOF Fund, and as warranted by market conditions. The receiver has indicated to the Company that he does not intend to direct any open market sales during this period except in circumstances in which he believes that there would be no material adverse impact on the market price for the Company’s shares. Nevertheless, as long as these shares are held in margin accounts where the lenders desire to liquidate the positions, there will be significant downward pressure on the market price of our common stock because the market is concerned that these shares may be sold in a manner that causes the price of our common stock to decline precipitously. This concern is ameliorated to some degree by the continuing prohibition by the F ederal Court on sales of our shares by financial institutions that hold the shares in margin accounts. The Federal Court has extended this prohibition on several occasions, most recently to June 2, 2010, while we and the receiver pursue the sale of these shares in a manner that would not disrupt the market for our common stock. If the Federal Court were to not extend this prohibition before the shares have been sold in such a transaction, then the financial institutions might foreclose on some or all of these shares and sell them into the market, which could have an extremely negative impact on the market price for our common stock. 10 Failure to satisfy Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements may result in our common stock being removed from listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Company’s Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “INOC”. For continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Global Market, we must generally maintain, among other requirements, a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5 million. The definition of publicly held shares, which excludes shares owned by officers, directors or beneficial owners owning 10% or more of the total outstanding shares of a company, includes only approximately 19% of Innotrac’s Common Stock. On January 4, 2010, Nasdaq informed us that our Common Stock was not in compliance with the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement. To regain compliance, the Company must have 10 consecutive business days before July 6, 2010 during which days the minimum market value of publicly held shares exceeds $5 million.< /font> If the Company is unable to regain compliance with this continued listing standard, it may apply for a transfer of its securities to the Nasdaq Capital Market, which has a minimum value of publicly held shares requirement of $1 million. If the Company is unable to regain compliance or transfer its securities to the NASDAQ Capital Market, the Company’s securities will be delisted from the Nasdaq. If the Company is delisted, the Company’s stock could be traded on the Pink Sheets or OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) quotation services. If our Common Stock is delisted from Nasdaq, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our Common Stock, which may make it more difficult for shareholders to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our Common Stock. Removal of our Common Stock from listing on the Nasdaq Global Market may also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of our securities. Our business is subject to government regulation, which may limit our activities or increase our costs. In connection with the limited amount of outbound telemarketing services that we provide, we must comply with federal and state regulations. These include the Federal Communications Commission’s rules under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 and the Federal Trade Commission’s regulations under the Federal Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act of 1994, both of which govern telephone solicitation. When we conduct outbound telemarketing services, these rules and regulations would apply to that portion of our business. Furthermore, there may be additional federal and state legislation or changes in regulatory implementation. New legislation or regulatory implementation in the future may significantly increase compliance costs or limit our activities, our clients’ activities or the activities of companies to which we outsource outbound telemarketing functions. Additionally, we could be responsible for failing to comply with regulations applicable to our clients or companies to which we outsource telemarketing. 11 If unfavorable federal or state legislation or regulations affecting the technology we use or the products we fulfill and provide customer support for are adopted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See “Business — Government Regulation” in Item 1 for further information about government regulation of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As a smaller reporting company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), we are not required to provide the information required by this item. 