ITEM 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risk. You should carefully consider the material risk factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of the events described below occur, the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the Company’s stock price may decline. It is possible that risks and uncertainties not listed below may arise or become material in the future and affect our business. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. The prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. While the economic downturn in the Charlotte region has generally been less severe that the economic slowdown experienced in other larger metropolitan areas of the country, the Charlotte region did experience decreases in housing prices, an increased unemployment rate, decreased housing starts and housing sales and commercial activity. Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on local economic conditions in the Charlotte region. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition, even if other favorable events occur. Our operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in our market areas could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: · borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; · the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and · the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of these scenarios could require us to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our net income. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the Charlotte region, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Unfavorable economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties may result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution that is able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, loans 90 or more days delinquent, and other real estate owned) totaled $17.1 million, or 2.15% of total assets, which is an increase of $11.5 million or 202.8% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, our non-performing assets were $5.6 million, or 0.69% of total assets. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or other real estate owned. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. 9 A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 93% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas due to the recession has resulted in an increase in the number of borrowers who defaulted on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn has had an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. When we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and stockholders’ equity are adversely affected. The declines in home prices in the markets we serve, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also have resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolio of loans related to residential real estate construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with a deepened economic recession and continued rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected. We have added a significant number of loans over the past five years from new relationships as we have entered new markets through acquisitions and de novo offices. As a result, our loan portfolio may not be as seasoned as the loan portfolios of our competitors in some of these new markets. Should local real estate markets or economies continue to weaken, we could experience higher default rates resulting in increased levels of non-performing loans, which would likely result in higher loan losses and reduced earnings. Non-residential loans increase our exposure to credit risks. Over the last several years, we have increased our non-residential lending in order to improve the yield and reduce the duration of our assets. At December 31, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate, real estate construction, commercial business, and other non-residential loans totaled $376.3 million, or 61.7% of total loans, compared to $278.1 million, or 58.7% of total loans at December 31, 2005. These loans may expose us to a greater risk of non-payment and loss than residential real estate loans because, in the case of commercial loans, repayment often depends on the successful operations and earnings of the borrowers and, in the case of consumer loans, the applicable collateral is subject to rapid depreciation. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Future legislative or regulatory actions responding to financial and market weakness could affect us adversely. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, the U.S. Congress has passed laws and the U.S. Treasury has promulgated programs designed to purchase assets from, provide equity capital to, and guarantee the liquidity of the financial services industry. However, there can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and the issuance of many formal enforcement orders is expected. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. 10 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s results of operations and financial condition are affected by changes in interest rates. The Company’s results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Because interest-earning assets generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, a decrease in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in the Company’s net interest income. Based on results generated by its interest rate risk model at December 31, 2009, a hypothetical, immediate and sustained decrease of 200 basis points throughout the yield curve would decrease its annual net interest income by 5.3%. The assumptions used in the model do not provide for actions that may be taken by management during the period to offset the effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income. We are also subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, the Company is subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that it is unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s interest-earning assets, and in particular, its securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s investment securities available for sale totaled $51.0 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $297,000 and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. A substantial decline in the value of our FHLB common stock may adversely affect our financial condition. We own common stock of the FHLB of Atlanta in order to qualify for membership in the FHLB system, which enables us to borrow funds under the FHLB advance program. The carrying value and fair market value of our FHLB of Atlanta common stock was $4.1 million as of December 31, 2009. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB system may be subject to asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a FHLB, including the FHLB of Atlanta, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, given that there is no market for our FHLB of Atlanta common stock, we believe that there is a risk that our investment could be deemed other than temporarily impaired at some time in the future. If this occurs, it may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the capitalization of the FHLB of Atlanta is substantially diminished and if it reduces or suspends its dividend, our liquidity may be adversely impaired if we are not able to obtain an alternative source of funding. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our operations by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We may seek whole bank or branch acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · the ability to finance an acquisition and possible ownership and economic dilution to existing stockholders; · diversion of management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired institution; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. 11 We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful and following any future merger or acquisition, after giving it effect, we may not achieve financial results comparable to or better than our historical experience. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect us. Our success is, and expected to remain, highly dependent on our senior management team and key officers. As a community bank, our management’s extensive knowledge of and relationships in the community generate a significant portion of our business. Successful execution of our business strategy will continue to place significant demands on our management and the loss of any such person’s services may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our trading volume is low compared with other larger financial institutions. The trading volume in the Company’s stock is comparable to other similarly-sized banks. However, this trading volume is low compared with larger financial institutions. As such, the liquidity of the Company’s stock is more limited than other companies which may adversely affect the price at which shares of our common stock may be sold. Our information systems may experience a security breach, computer virus, or disruption of service. Citizens South Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. While we use qualified third party vendors to test and audit our network, our network could become vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. Citizens South Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that Citizens South Bank’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose Citizens South Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in Citizens South Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. Further declines in the value of certain investment securities could require write-downs, which would reduce our earnings. At December 31, 2009, we held $83.8 million of investment securities that had gross unrealized loss totaling $1.3 million. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an impairment that is other than temporary. These factors include, but are not limited to, failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. An other-than-temporary impairment write-down would reduce our earnings. Strong competition within our market areas may limit our growth and profitability. We face numerous competitors in both our community banking and mortgage banking operations in the Charlotte region, which is our primary market area. We compete for loan and deposit growth with large banks that have a regional or a national presence, other community banks, de novo financial institutions, thrifts or savings institutions, credit unions, brokerage and insurance firms, and other nonbank businesses, such as retailers that engage in consumer financing activities. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more challenging to grow loans and deposits and to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer services that we do not provide. 12 If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, then our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of allowance for loan losses, we review our loan loss and delinquency experience, we evaluate current local economic conditions, and we analyze the collateral position of our loan portfolio. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in increases to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans and liquidity resources of the holding company. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $56.5 million of FHLB advances outstanding. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Provisions of the Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Citizens South Banking Corporation without the consent of its Board of Directors. As a Citizens South Banking Corporation stockholder, you may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then-prevailing price of Citizens South Banking Corporation’s common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Citizens South Banking Corporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove Citizens South Banking Corporation’s current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of its common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Citizens South Banking Corporation’s bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition plan shares. Citizens South Banking Corporation has entered into employment agreements and change of control agreements with certain executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation or Citizens South Bank. Citizens South Banking Corporation also has adopted plans to permit additional issuances of stock options and recognition plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Citizens South Banking Corporation. These payments will have the effect of increasing the costs of acquiring Citizens South Banking Corporation, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. 13 Citizens South Banking Corporation’s stock-based benefit plans may dilute your ownership interest. Citizens South Banking Corporation has adopted stock option plans and recognition and retention plans. These stock-based benefit plans can be funded from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock or through open market purchases by the Company, subject to approval by the U.S. Treasury Department. Stockholders will experience a reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares, instead of repurchased shares, are used to fund stock option exercises and stock awards. A legislative proposal has been introduced that would eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, which would require the Company to become a bank holding company. Legislation has been introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The House Bill (H.R. 4173) would eliminate our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, by merging the Office of Thrift Supervision into the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The proposed legislation would authorize the Comptroller of the Currency to charter savings banks, which would be under the supervision of the Division of Thrift Supervision of the Comptroller of the Currency. The proposed legislation would also establish a Financial Services Oversight Council and grant the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System exclusive authority to regulate all banks and thrift holding companies. As a result, the Company would become a holding company subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision, and would become subject to the Federal Reserve’s regulations, including holding company capital requirements, that the Company is not subject to as a savings and loan holding company. In addition, compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses. ITEM 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 