ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements in this report. See “Disclosure Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” The current economic crisis could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses and consumers around the world. Our results can be impacted by a number of macroeconomic factors, including, but not limited to, consumer confidence and spending levels, unemployment, consumer credit availability, fuel and energy costs, global factory production, commercial real estate market conditions, credit market conditions and the level of customer traffic in malls and shopping centers. Demand for our merchandise is significantly impacted by negative trends in consumer confidence and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These factors have recently driven sharp declines in mall traffic and consumer spending. The downturn in the economy may continue to affect consumer purchases of our merchandise for the foreseeable future and adversely impact our results of operations. We believe that our current cash position, cash flow from operations and availability under the Credit Facility will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current economic crisis. However, the impact of this crisis on our customers and suppliers cannot be predicted and may be severe. A decrease in liquidity of our customers and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. 10 Failure to achieve sufficient levels of revenue and cash flow at individual store locations could result in impairment charges related to our stores. In fiscal 2008, we recorded non-cash asset impairment charges related to underperforming stores. Various uncertainties, including changes in consumer preferences or continued deterioration in the economic environment could impact the expected cash flows to be generated by our store locations, and may result in an impairment of those assets. Although such an impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, any impairment could materially increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We operate in the highly competitive specialty retail industry and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, which could result in loss of our market share. We face intense competition in the specialty retail industry. We compete primarily with specialty retailers, high-end department stores, catalog retailers and Internet businesses that engage in the retail sale of women’s, men’s and children’s apparel, accessories, shoes and similar merchandise. We believe that the principal bases upon which we compete are the quality, style and design of merchandise and the quality of customer service. We also believe that price is an important factor in our customers’ decision-making process. Many of our competitors are, and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, generate greater national brand recognition or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. In addition, increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, both online and in stores, may negatively impact our revenues and gross profit. If we are unable to gauge fashion trends and react to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, our sales will decrease. We believe our success depends in substantial part on our ability to: • originate and define product and fashion trends, • anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, and • translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product offerings far in advance of their sale in our stores, our catalog or our Internet website. Because we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of merchandise well in advance of the season in which merchandise will be sold, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts and suboptimal merchandise selection and timing of merchandise purchases. We attempt to reduce the risks of changing fashion trends and product acceptance in part by devoting a portion of our product line to classic styles that are not significantly modified from year to year. Nevertheless, if we misjudge the market for our products or overall level of consumer demand, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others. Our brand image may also suffer if customers believe we are no longer able to offer the latest fashions. The occurrence of these events could hurt our financial results by decreasing sales. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. The specialty retail industry is cyclical, and a decline in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could reduce our sales and slow our growth. The industry in which we operate is cyclical. Purchases of apparel and accessories are sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including general economic conditions and the level of disposable consumer income, the availability of consumer credit, interest rates, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Because apparel and accessories generally are discretionary purchases, declines in consumer spending patterns may impact us more negatively as a specialty retailer. Therefore, we may not be able to grow revenues if there is a decline in consumer spending patterns, and we may decide to slow or alter our growth plans. 11 We rely on the experience and skills of key personnel, the loss of whom could damage our brand image and our ability to sell our merchandise. We believe we have benefited substantially from the leadership and strategic guidance of our chief executive officer, and other key executives and members of our creative team, who are primarily responsible for developing our strategy. The loss, for any reason, of the services of any of these individuals and any negative market or industry perception arising from such loss could damage our brand image. Our executive and creative team has substantial experience and expertise in the specialty retail industry and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of one or more of these individuals could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our merchandise. In addition, products we develop without the guidance and direction of these key personnel may not receive the same level of acceptance. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the future. Our real estate strategy may not be successful, and new store locations may fail to produce desired results, which could impact our competitive position and profitability. We expanded our store base by 40 net new stores in fiscal 2008. In light of the current economic conditions, we have slowed the pace of our store base expansion considerably and expect to open approximately half that number in fiscal year 2009. We are also reviewing our existing store base and identifying opportunities, where available, to renegotiate the terms of those leases. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and renew our existing store leases on terms that meet our financial targets. Our ability to open new stores on schedule or at all, to renew our existing store leases on favorable terms or to operate them on a profitable basis will depend on various factors, including our ability to: • identify suitable markets for new stores and available store locations, • negotiate acceptable lease terms for new locations or renewal terms for existing locations, • hire and train qualified sales associates, • develop new merchandise and manage inventory effectively to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis, • foster current relationships and develop new relationships with vendors that are capable of supplying a greater volume of merchandise, and • avoid construction delays and cost overruns in connection with the build-out of new stores. New stores and stores with renewed lease terms may not produce anticipated levels of revenue even though they increase our costs. As a result, our expenses as a percentage of sales would increase and our profitability would be adversely affected. Our expanded product offerings, new sales channels and new brand concepts may not be successful, and implementation of these strategies may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. We have grown our business in recent years by expanding our product offerings and sales channels, including by marketing our crewcuts line of children’s apparel and accessories and our Madewell line of women’s apparel, footwear and accessories. We have recently opened a small number of free-standing stores dedicated to men’s wear, crewcuts and “collections” items. These strategies involve various risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including: • implementation may be delayed or may not be successful, 12 • if our expanded product offerings and sales channels fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our sales may decrease, • if customers do not respond to these product offerings and sales channels as anticipated, these strategies may not be profitable on a larger scale, and • implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. In addition, our new product offerings and sales channels may be affected by, among other things, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer preferences and style trends. Further rollout of these strategies could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our revenue and profitability. If we fail to maintain the value of our brand, our sales are likely to decline. Our success depends on the value of the J.Crew brand. The J.Crew name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in sales. Our declining levels of comparable store sales could cause our earnings to continue to decline. If our future comparable store sales continue to decline, our earnings could continue to decline. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—How We Assess the Performance of Our Business—Comparable Store Sales.” In addition, our results have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past twelve fiscal quarters, our quarterly comparable store sales have declined to a decrease of 13.1% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 from an increase of 18.7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2006. A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, timing and level of markdowns and weather conditions. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than previous periods, which could cause declines in our quarterly earnings and stock price. An inability or failure to protect our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and reduce demand for our merchandise. The J.Crew and Madewell trademarks and variations thereon, such as crewcuts, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We intend to continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, but we may not be successful in doing so. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our trademarks would diminish the value of our brand, which could reduce demand for our products or the prices at which we can sell our products. Ongoing reductions in the volume of mall traffic or closing of shopping malls as a result of the current economic crisis could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory. Most of our stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Our stores benefit from the ability of the malls’ “anchor” tenants, generally large 13 department stores and other area attractions, to generate consumer traffic in the vicinity of our stores and the continuing popularity of the malls as shopping destinations. The current economic crisis, particularly in certain regions, has adversely affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor department stores and has threatened the viability of certain commercial real estate firms which operate major shopping malls. A continuation of this trend, including failure of a large commercial landlord or continued declines in the popularity of mall shopping generally among our customers, would reduce our sales and leave us with excess inventory. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory, which would further decrease our gross profits and net income. Fluctuations in our results of operations for the fourth fiscal quarter would have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. We experience seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating income, with a disproportionate amount of our revenues being generated in the fourth fiscal quarter holiday season. Our revenues and income are generally weakest during the first and second fiscal quarters. In addition, any factors that harm our fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak shopping season, we must order and keep in stock significantly more merchandise than we would carry at other times of the year. Any unanticipated decrease in demand for our products during our peak shopping season could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown, which could reduce our net sales and gross profit. We saw this occur in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, following a substantial decline in the overall economy and consumer spending beginning in October 2008. As a result, we were forced to take aggressive markdowns to clear our fall and holiday inventory. Additional unplanned decreases in demand for our products could produce further reductions to our net sales and gross profit. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of new store openings and of catalog mailings, the revenues contributed by new stores, merchandise mix and the timing and level of inventory markdowns. As a result, historical period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future period-to-period results. You should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter, particularly the fourth fiscal quarter holiday season, as an indication of our annual results or our future performance. If our manufacturers are unable to produce our goods on time or to our specifications, we could suffer lost sales. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third party vendors for the manufacture of all of our products. Our products are manufactured to our specifications primarily by foreign manufacturers. We cannot control all of the various factors, which include inclement weather, natural disasters and acts of terrorism, that might affect a manufacturer’s ability to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards. Late delivery of products or delivery of products that do not meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers or delay timely delivery of merchandise to our stores for those items. These events could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, cause our customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, which could result in lost sales. Third party failure to deliver merchandise from our distribution centers to our stores and to customers or a disruption or adverse condition affecting our distribution centers could result in lost sales or reduce demand for our merchandise. The success of our stores depends on their timely receipt of merchandise from our distribution facilities, and the success of Direct depends on the timely delivery of merchandise to our customers. Independent third party 14 transportation companies deliver our merchandise to our stores and to our customers. Some of these third parties employ personnel represented by a labor union. Disruptions in the delivery of merchandise or work stoppages by employees of these third parties could delay the timely receipt of merchandise, which could result in cancelled sales, a loss of loyalty to our brand and excess inventory. Timely receipt of merchandise by our stores and our customers may also be affected by factors such as inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, system failures and acts of terrorism. We may respond by increasing markdowns or initiating marketing promotions, which would decrease our gross profits and net income. Interruption in our foreign sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs. In fiscal 2008, approximately 96% of our merchandise was sourced from foreign factories. In particular, approximately 73% of our merchandise was sourced from China, Hong Kong and Macau. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts, and many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia or elsewhere. We compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Our business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as political instability, currency and exchange risks, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. Our sourcing operations may also be hurt by political and financial instability, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may occur in Asia or elsewhere or acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise. Our future operations and performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations or may require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. In addition, the raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs, safeguards or quotas, on apparel and accessories could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us. We source our merchandise through buying agents and by purchasing directly from trading companies and manufacturers, predominately in various foreign countries. There are quotas and trade restrictions on certain categories of goods and apparel from China and countries which are not subject to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) Agreement which could have a significant impact on our sourcing patterns in the future. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on our sourcing from certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products we purchase. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts or enhanced security measures at U.S. ports could increase the cost, delay shipping or reduce the supply of apparel available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our profitability. 15 Increases in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our profitability. Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. In fiscal 2008, approximately 10% of our selling, general and administrative expenses were attributable to such costs. In May 2008, the U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase of approximately 3%. We anticipate a similar rate increase in 2009. We receive discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the supply of paper. Our cost of paper has fluctuated significantly, and our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces that we cannot control. Future additional increases in postal rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to pass those increases directly to customers or offset those increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number and size of certain catalog editions. If our independent manufacturers do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, the J.Crew brand name could be harmed due to negative publicity. While our internal and vendor operating guidelines, as outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, promote ethical business practices and we, along with third parties that we retain for this purpose, monitor compliance with those guidelines, we do not control our independent manufacturers. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their compliance with our guidelines. Our Vendor Code of Conduct is designed to ensure that each of our suppliers’ operations are conducted in a legal, ethical, and responsible manner. Our Vendor Code of Conduct requires that each of our suppliers operates in compliance with applicable wage benefit, working hours and other local laws, and forbids the use of practices such as child labor or forced labor. Violation of labor or other laws by our independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s or our licensing partner’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could diminish the value of the J.Crew brand and reduce demand for our merchandise if, as a result of such violation, we were to attract negative publicity. Any significant interruption in the operations of our customer call, order fulfillment and distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to process customer orders and to deliver our merchandise in a timely manner. Our customer call center and Direct’s order fulfillment operations are housed together in a single facility, while distribution operations for J.Crew retail and factory stores are housed in another single facility. Although we maintain back-up systems for these facilities, they may not be able to prevent a significant interruption in the operation of these facilities due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems we use or other events. In addition, we have recently upgraded certain Direct channel systems, including our web platform, order management system and warehouse management system in order to support recent and expected future growth. We experienced some interruptions during fiscal 2008 in connection with our implementation and while we made progress in stabilizing these systems during fiscal 2008, there can be no assurance that future interruptions will not occur. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or manage our transition to utilizing the expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services to our stores and customers, which could result in lost sales, cancelled sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand. We are subject to customs, advertising, consumer protection, privacy, zoning and occupancy and labor and employment laws that could require us to modify our current business practices and incur increased costs. We are subject to numerous regulations, including customs, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, privacy and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. If 16 these regulations were to change or were violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, the costs of certain goods could increase, or we could experience delays in shipments of our goods, be subject to fines or penalties, or suffer reputational harm, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and hurt our business and results of operations. In addition, changes in federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs, which could hurt our profitability. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, which may increase our costs and materially limit our ability to operate our business. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and reduce our sales. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. In fiscal 2008, we upgraded certain of our information systems to support recent and expected future growth. These system upgrades impaired our ability to capture, process and ship customer orders, and transfer product between channels. We incurred additional costs associated with these upgrades which impacted our operating results in fiscal 2008. We made progress in stabilizing these systems during fiscal 2008, but there can be no assurances that future disruptions will not occur. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed which could—especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season—result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our merchandise and cause our sales to decline. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose customers. Our Internet operations are an increasingly substantial part of our business, representing approximately 24% of our revenues in fiscal 2008. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce Internet sales and damage our brand’s reputation. We have taken over certain portions of our information systems needs that were previously outsourced to a third party and are making upgrades to our information systems. We may take over other outsourced portions of our information systems in the near future. If we are unable to manage these aspects of our information systems or the planned upgrades, our receipt and delivery of merchandise could be disrupted, which could result in a decline in our sales. Our debt may limit the cash flow available for our operations, place us at a competitive disadvantage, and limit our ability to pursue our expansion plans. As of January 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $100.0 million. The terms of our indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to use for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, 17 • limit our ability to pay future dividends, • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion plans and other investments, which may limit our ability to implement our business strategy, • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings, • heighten our vulnerability to further downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the retail industry, • prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our store base, product offerings and sales channels, or • include restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements include, or may include, covenants or restrictions relating to limitations on capital expenditures; liens and sale-leaseback transactions; loans and investments; debt and hedging arrangements; mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; transactions with affiliates; and changes in business activities conducted by us and our subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to make payments on our indebtedness or to fund our operations. In addition, our indebtedness may require us, under certain circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Facility” and “MD&A-Term Loan.” Compliance with these covenants and these ratios may prevent us from pursuing opportunities that we believe would benefit our business, including opportunities that we might pursue as part of our plans to expand our store base, our product offerings and sales channels. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 