Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The Bank was undercapitalized under regulatory guidelines at December 31, 2009, and continued losses and deterioration in credit quality are likely to cause the Bank’s capital levels to further decline in the near term. The Bank was “undercapitalized” for regulatory capital ratio purposes at December 31, 2009 as compared to “well-capitalized” at September 30, 2009. Credit quality continued to deteriorate in early 2010 and, as a result, the Bank’s interim capital position was “significantly undercapitalized” as of January 31, 2010, and the Company 36 Table of Contents expects the Bank to be “critically undercapitalized” at March 31, 2010. A bank is considered critically undercapitalized when it has a tangible equity to total assets ratio of equal to or less than 2.00%. See Item 1. “Business — Supervision and Regulation — Capital Requirements.” In addition, the Company was “undercapitalized” at December 31, 2009 and is expected to remain undercapitalized at March 31, 2010. Failure by the Company to improve the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios within the timeframe required under the Prompt Correction Act discussed below will result in material adverse consequences, including the possibility that the Company may become subject to a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy filing, the Bank could be placed into FDIC receivership by its regulators, or the Bank could be acquired by a third party in a transaction in which the Company receives no value for its interest in the Bank, any of which events would be expected to result in a loss of all or a substantial portion of the value of the Company’s outstanding securities. Due to the Bank’s significantly undercapitalized status, the Federal Reserve Bank has issued a Prompt Corrective Action Directive (“PCA”) pursuant to which the Bank must either become adequately capitalized or be sold within 45 days of the PCA. Any failure to comply with the terms of the PCA will have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company. The PCA consented to by the Bank provides that the Bank, in conjunction with the Company, must within 45 days of March 29, 2010 either: (i) increase the Bank’s capital so that it becomes adequately capitalized; (ii) enter into and close an agreement to sell the Bank subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions; or (iii) take other necessary measures to make the Bank adequately capitalized. The PCA also prohibits or restricts the Bank from taking certain other actions and subjects the Bank to other operating restrictions. In addition, the Company and the Bank continue to be subject to the written agreement (the “Written Agreement”) with the Federal Reserve Bank and the Illinois Division of Banking that requires the Company and the Bank to take certain steps intended to improve their overall condition, as further described under “Business — Recent Developments — Written Agreement with Regulators.” There can be no assurance that the Company or the Bank will be able to satisfy, in a timely manner or at all, the requirements set forth in the PCA and the Written Agreement, or that the plans adopted in response to the requirements of the PCA and the Written Agreement will have their intended effect. As further described under “Business — Recent Developments — Outlook for 2010,” the Company and the Bank were notified on March 25, 2010 by the Federal Reserve Bank that the Bank’s capital plan previously submitted as required under the Written Agreement was not accepted. Moreover, the PCA does not prevent bank regulators from increasing the amount or composition of capital required to be raised, denying any sale of the Bank or imposing other directives restricting the Company’s or the Bank’s business. If the Company or the Bank is unable to comply with the terms of the PCA, the Written Agreement or any other applicable regulations, the Company and the Bank will become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, including further enforcement action by the regulators that may, among other things, result in the appointment of a receiver for the Bank or the acquisition of the Bank in a transaction in which the Company receives no value. Any such appointment or sale of the Bank could be expected to result in a loss of all or a substantial portion of the value of the Company’s outstanding securities. The Company does not have the ability to pay amounts that will become immediately due and payable upon the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement with the Company’s primary lender on March 31, 2010. The Company has been in violation of certain financial covenants under its revolving line of credit and term note and the related loan documents (collectively, the “Loan Agreements”) since September 30, 2009. The lender under the Loan Agreements advised the Company that such noncompliance constituted a continuing event of default. As a result, the lender possesses certain rights and remedies, including the ability to demand immediate payment of amounts owed under the Loan Agreements totaling approximately $63.6 million plus accrued interest or to foreclose on 100% of the stock of the Bank which was pledged as collateral to support the Company’s obligations under the Loan Agreements. On October 22, 2009, the Company entered into a Forbearance Agreement with its lender under the Loan Agreements, pursuant to which, among other things, the lender agreed to forbear from exercising the rights and remedies available to it as a consequence of certain existing events of default, other than 37 Table of Contents continuing to impose default rates of interest (the “Forbearance Agreement”). The Forbearance Agreement expires on March 31, 2010, at which time the lender could declare immediately due and payable all amounts owed under the Loan Agreements. Should the lender demand payment at or after that time, the Company presently would be unable to repay the amounts due. As a result, the lender could, among other remedies, foreclose on outstanding shares of the Bank’s capital stock, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and ability to continue as a going concern and could result in a loss of all or a substantial portion of the value of the Company’s outstanding securities. If the Company fails to raise additional capital in a timely manner, the Company may be forced to seek bankruptcy protection and/or the Bank could be placed under FDIC receivership. A principal component of the Company’s overall capital plan has been to raise new equity capital necessary in order to improve the regulatory capital ratios of the Company and the Bank. The timely raising of new equity capital is also critical in order to increase the Bank’s capital as required by the PCA. While the Company continues to pursue new equity capital, it has not received any commitment for a new equity capital investment, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise a sufficient amount of new equity capital in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company ultimately is unsuccessful in raising a sufficient amount of new equity capital or, alternatively, executing another strategic initiative, the Company may become subject to a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy filing, the Bank could be placed into FDIC receivership by its regulators, or the Bank could be acquired by a third party in a transaction in which the Company receives no value for its interest in the Bank. Any such event could be expected to result in a loss of all or a substantial portion of the value of the Company’s outstanding securities. As a result of the above-described events and circumstances, the Company has determined that there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Due to the deterioration in the capital ratios of the Bank and the Company, the uncertainty as to the Company’s ability to raise sufficient amounts of new equity capital, recent regulatory actions with respect to the Company and the Bank, including the PCA, and the current inability of the Company to repay amounts owed under the Loan Agreements if, after the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement, its lender were to declare the amounts owed thereunder immediately due and payable, the Company has determined that there is substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Although the Company believes that the raising of additional capital, if timely achieved, will alleviate the substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going-concern, there can be no assurance that such actions will be achieved in a timely manner or at all, or if achieved, that they will be sufficient to alleviate the uncertainty about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 an explanatory paragraph with respect to the substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company is undercapitalized at December 31, 2009, as defined by the regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies, and does not have sufficient liquidity to meet the potential demand for all amounts due under its lending arrangements upon termination of the Forbearance Agreement that expires on March 31, 2010. The Company’s financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. A substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern may have a material adverse impact on the Company and the Bank’s business, financial condition and results of operations and the ability to raise necessary new equity capital. Moreover, relationships with third parties with whom the Company and the Bank do business or on whom they rely, including depositors (particularly those with deposit accounts in excess of FDIC insurance limits), customers and clients, vendors, employees and financial counter-parties could be significantly adversely impacted because these individuals and entities may react adversely to the going concern issue, making it more difficult for the Company to address the issues giving rise to the going concern. 38 Table of Contents The Company has incurred cumulative losses since January 1, 2008 and expect to incur losses in the future. Since January 1, 2008, the Company has incurred losses of $401.0 million through December 31, 2009. These losses are due to the goodwill impairment charges, a substantial increase in provision for credit losses, and the losses on the preferred stock of FNMA and GNMA. The Company expects to incur losses through 2010. The Company cannot provide any assurances that it will not incur additional losses, especially in light of economic conditions that continue to adversely affect the Company’s borrowers and local markets. Further losses in 2010 could require the Company to access additional capital, which may or may not be available. Losses subsequent to December 31, 2009, will reduce the Company’s capital and may require it to write down or write off its deferred tax assets and goodwill. The Company’s results of operations, financial condition and business may be materially, adversely affected if it fails to successfully implement the Capital Plan. The Company’s Capital Plan it announced in July 2009 contemplates a number of different strategies intended to increase common equity capital and raise additional capital as further described under “Capital Plan” of Part I Item 1 above. There can be no assurances, however, that the Company will be able to successfully execute on each or every component of the Capital Plan, in a timely manner or at all, and a number of events and conditions must occur in order for the plan to achieve its intended effect. For instance, one of the key elements of the Capital Plan is to raise a significant amount of new equity capital. The Company’s ability to raise additional equity capital is subject to a number of factors and there can be no assurance that the Company can raise additional capital in a timely manner, on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is not able to successfully complete the Capital Plan, the Company could be adversely impacted by negative assessments regarding its ability to withstand continued adverse economic conditions. Moreover, the Company’s business, and the value of its securities would be materially and adversely affected, it would be more difficult for the Company to meet the capital requirements of the Company’s primary banking regulators, it would likely become increasingly difficult to seek further forbearance or waivers from the Company’s primary lender for continuing or any new events of default and it would be difficult to obtain forbearance or waivers, if necessary, from the counterparties to the repurchase agreements, any of which circumstances may make it difficult for the Company in the future to demonstrate its ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company is unable to successfully complete its Capital Plan and were to continue to suffer further deterioration of its loan portfolio, the Company may consider with a strategic or financial partner a plan of reorganization to recapitalize the Bank pursuant to chapter 11 of the bankruptcy code or become subject to an involuntary bankruptcy petition and/or the Bank could be placed into FDIC receivership by its regulators. Any such event could be expected to result in a loss of the entire value of the Company’s outstanding common stock and all or substantially all of the value of any depositary shares outstanding. Changes in economic conditions, in particular a continued economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, has hurt and could continue to hurt the Company’s business materially. The Company’s business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond its control. A continued deterioration in economic conditions, in particular a continuing economic slowdown in Chicago, Illinois, and surrounding areas, has resulted and may continue to result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt or continue to hurt the Company’s business materially: • loan delinquencies may continue to increase or remain at elevated levels; • problem assets and foreclosures may continue to increase or remain at elevated levels; • unemployment may continue to increase; • demand for the Company’s products and services may decline; 39 Table of Contents • low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by the Company, especially residential and commercial real estate, may decline or continue to decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with the Company’s existing loans. A large percentage of the Company’s loans are collateralized by real estate, including construction loans, and adverse changes in the real estate market may result in continued or increased losses and continue adversely affect the Company’s profitability. A majority of the Company’s loan portfolio is comprised of loans at least partially collateralized by real estate; a substantial portion of this real estate collateral is located in the Chicago market. As of December 31, 2009, collateral-based classification basis, commercial real estate loans totaled $1.2 billion, or 52.5% of the Company’s total loan portfolio, and construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled an additional $308.6 million, or 13.3% of its total loan portfolio. Adverse changes in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in the Chicago market specifically could significantly impair the value of the Company’s collateral and its ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loans. As a result, the Company’s profitability could be negatively impacted by an adverse change in the real estate market. Construction and land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds may be advanced based upon values associated with the completed project, which is uncertain. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If the appraisal of the anticipated value of the completed project proves to be overstated, the Company may have inadequate security for the loan. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s nonperforming loans were $285.5 million, or 12.3% of its loan portfolio, and the nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans, troubled-debt restructured loans, and foreclosed properties) were $312.4 million, or 9.06% of total assets. In addition, the Company had approximately $62.9 million in accruing loans that were 30 to 89 days delinquent at December 31, 2009. The Company’s nonperforming assets adversely affect its net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, the Company expects to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans, thereby adversely affecting its income, and increasing its loan administration costs. The Company does incur the costs of funding problem assets and foreclosed properties, however. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, its is required to mark the collateral to its then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. These nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties also increase the Company’s risk profile. There can be no assurance that: (i) the Company will be able to reduce its nonperforming assets timely; or (ii) that it will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future. Any of these actions may result in additional future credit losses and additional regulatory enforcement actions. 40 Table of Contents The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its results of operations or its financial condition. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and that the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company has and may continue to experience significant loan losses, which could continue to have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, which are based in part on: • current economic conditions and their estimated effects on specific borrowers; • an evaluation of the existing relationships among loans, potential loan losses and the present level of the allowance; • management’s internal review of the loan portfolio; and • results of examinations of its loan portfolio by regulatory agencies. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover probable incurred loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely continue to occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than experienced historically. In determining the amount of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, experience, and evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions and analysis prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient. In addition, adjustments may be necessary to allow for unexpected volatility or deterioration in the local or national economy or other factors such as changes in interest rates that may be beyond its control. The results of examination from regulatory agencies are also considered. Any increase in the Company’s loan allowance or loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. The level of the Company’s nonperforming assets, which consist of nonaccrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans, foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets, may also impact the sufficiency of the Company’s allowance for loan losses. Nonperforming assets totaled $312.4 million as of December 31, 2009, an increase of $228.3 million, or 271.3%, from $84.1 million at December 31, 2008. In addition to those loans currently identified and classified as nonperforming loans, management is aware that other possible credit problems may exist with some borrowers. These include loans that are migrating from grades with lower risk of loss probabilities into grades with higher risk of loss probabilities as performance and potential repayment issues surface. The Company monitors these loans and adjusts loss rates in its allowance for loan losses accordingly. The most severe of these loans are credits that are classified as substandard assets due to either less than satisfactory performance history, lack of borrower’s paying capacity, or inadequate collateral. While the Company attempts to manage the risk from changes in market interest rates, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. In addition, the Company may not be able to economically hedge its interest rate risk. A rapid or substantial increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect its net interest income and results of operations. The Company’s net income depends primarily upon its net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting, from total income generated by earning assets, the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors, including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the level of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds required to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of non-interest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to changes in market interest rates. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. That means either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest earning assets, or vice versa. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more 41 Table of Contents quickly than interest earning assets, an increase in market rates of interest could reduce the Company’s net interest income. Likewise, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates which are affected by many factors beyond its control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Based on its net interest income simulation model, if market interest rates were to increase immediately by 100 or 200 basis points (a parallel and immediate shift of the yield curve) net interest income would be expected to increase by 8.29% and 18.12%, respectively, from what it would be if rates were to remain at December 31, 2009 levels. The actual amount of any increase or decrease may be higher or lower than that predicted by the Company’s simulation model. Net interest income is not only affected by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve, credit spreads, relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. As result of current market conditions, the Company’s net interest income simulation model did not test the effects of 100 and 200 basis point decreases in market interest rates at December 31, 2008 or December 31, 2009 as those decreases would result in some deposit interest rate assumptions falling below zero. Nonetheless, the Company’s net interest income could decline in those scenarios as yields on earning assets could continue to adjust downward. Although the Company is seeking to mitigate this risk by instituting interest rate floors into its variable-rate loan products, continuation of the existing interest rate environment, featuring an historically low absolute level of market rates of interest, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company attempts to manage risk from changes in market interest rates, in part, by controlling the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. The Company continually reviews its interest rate risk position and modifies its strategies based on projections to minimize the impact of future interest rate changes. The Company also uses financial instruments with optionality to modify its exposure to changes in interest rates. However, interest rate risk management techniques are not exact. A rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could adversely affect results of operations and financial performance. The Company and the Bank may not be able to access sufficient and cost-effective sources of liquidity necessary to fund operations and meet payment obligations under their existing funding commitments, including the repayment of brokered deposits. The Bank depends on access to a variety of funding sources, including deposits, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of its clients, including funding loans. The Bank also must have sufficient funds available to satisfy its obligation to repay any wholesale borrowings its has outstanding, including brokered deposits and other obligations, when they come due. Currently, the Bank’s primary sources of liquidity are clients’ deposits, as well as brokered deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank advances, and repayments and maturities of loans and securities. To the extent deposit growth is not commensurate with its funding needs, the Bank may need to access alternative, more expensive funding sources. Addressing these funding needs in the future will be even more challenging given that the Bank is undercapitalized for regulatory capital purposes, and as a result, the Bank is no longer able to accept or renew brokered deposits, whether wholesale or retail, secure deposits at rates that are 75 basis points higher than the prevailing effective rates on insured deposits of comparable amounts or maturities in the Bank’s normal market area or the national rates periodically release by the FDIC. In addition, the Bank is not knowingly accepting deposits in excess of FDIC insurance coverage limits, and believes it has sufficient liquidity to fund its near-term potential and actual obligations. Scheduled maturities of brokered deposits are $60.1 million in the first quarter 2010, $64.9 million in the second quarter 2010, $206.4 million in the third quarter 2010, $76.5 million in the fourth quarter 2010 and $46.6 million thereafter. Although the Bank experienced an increase in deposits that has allowed it to reduce to some extent its reliance on wholesale funding sources during 2009, there can be no assurance that this level of deposit growth will continue. There is also no way to determine with any degree of certainty whether these deposits are, in whole or in part, permanent or transitory. If the returns in the equity markets continue to improve or FDIC insurance coverage is reduced, some of the Bank’s deposits could move to higher yielding investment alternatives outside of the Bank, 42 Table of Contents thus causing a reduction in the Bank’s deposits and increased reliance on wholesale funding sources. Although management currently believes the Bank has the ability and the available liquidity to meet its near-term potential and actual obligations, if in the future additional cost-effective funding is not available on terms satisfactory to the Bank or at all, the Bank may not be able to meet its funding obligations, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and earnings. In addition, as further described below, several of the Bank’s repurchase agreements could permit the counterparty to terminate the repurchase agreements prior to maturity because the Bank is not currently well-capitalized. Due to the relatively high fixed rates on these borrowings as compared to currently low market rates of interest, the Bank would incur substantial costs to unwind these repurchase agreements if terminated prior to their maturities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition in the period of payment. As a result of the Bank’s capital position, it had to increase the amount of collateral securing the existing FHLBC advances, and the wholesale funding market is no longer available to the Bank. As a holding company without independent operations, the Company’s liquidity (on an unconsolidated basis) is primarily dependent upon the Company’s ability to raise debt or equity capital from third parties and the receipt of dividends from its operating subsidiaries. The Company is currently in default under its Loan Agreements and its revolving credit facility has matured and is no longer available. Despite its recent efforts to obtain new equity capital, the Company has not yet obtained a commitment for new equity capital. As a result of recent regulatory actions, the Company’s principal operating subsidiary, the Bank, is prohibited from paying any dividends or making any loans to the Company. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents on an unconsolidated basis amounted to $3.4 million. The Company’s liquidity position on an unconsolidated basis can be adversely affected by, among other things, decreases in the amount of cash and other liquid assets on hand due to increased expenses or otherwise; the payment of interest or principal on debt issued by the Company (including any amounts demanded upon expiration of the Forbearance Agreement); any payment of dividends on equity securities issued by the holding company (all of which have been suspended or deferred); any capital it injects into the Bank; and any redemption of debt for cash issued by the holding company. The Company’s unconsolidated liquidity position also may be adversely affected if the Bank continues to be unable or prohibited by its regulators to pay a dividend to the Company sufficient to satisfy the Company’s cash flow needs; if it is required by the Federal Reserve to use cash at the holding company to support the capital position of the Bank; or if it continues to have difficulty raising cash at the holding company level through the issuance of debt or equity instruments or accessing additional sources of credit. Although the Company receives a management fee from the Bank for services provided by the Company in support of the Bank’s operations, the timing and amount of such management fees are subject to approval by the Bank’s regulators, and there can be no assurances that such fees will be approved in the future or that the amounts of such fees will be sufficient to meet the Company’s costs of providing services to the Bank. Presently, the Company does not have sufficient liquidity on an unconsolidated basis to meet its short-term obligations, which include the approximately $63.6 million in outstanding debt that its lender could accelerate and demand payment for upon the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement on March 31, 2010. The Company believes that, if the lender does not exercise its right to demand payment of amounts owed under the Loan Agreements, that it has adequate liquidity to meet its near-term commitments. The Company’s cost of funds for banking operations may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. The Bank has traditionally obtained funds principally through deposits and borrowings. As a general matter, deposits are a cheaper source of funds than borrowings, because interest rates paid for deposits are typically less than interest rates charged for borrowings. Historically and in comparison to commercial banking averages, the Bank has had a higher percentage of its time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more and brokered certificates of deposit. Within the banking industry, the amounts of such deposits are generally considered more likely to fluctuate than deposits of smaller denominations. If, as a result of general economic conditions, market interest rates, competitive pressures or otherwise, the value of deposits at the Bank decrease relative to its overall banking operations, the Bank may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future. 43 Table of Contents Changes in the mix of the Company’s funding sources could have an adverse effect on its income. 33.7% of the Company’s funding sources as of December 31, 2009 are in lower-rate transactional deposit accounts. Market rate increases or competitive pricing could heighten the risk of moving to higher-rate funding sources, which would cause an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is in breach of certain financial covenants under its Loan Agreements and its lender has the right to take certain courses of action that would, if exercised, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations and ability to continue as a going concern. At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $78.6 million outstanding under the Loan Agreements. Approximately $63.6 million of the amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreements are secured by all of the outstanding shares of stock of the Bank. The Company has breached certain financial covenants under the Loan Agreements, certain of which breaches constitute events of default. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Borrowings.” Due to the occurrence and the continuance of such events of default, the interest rate on the revolving line of credit increased to the default interest rate of 7.25%, and the interest rate under the term loan agreement increased to the default interest rate of 30 day LIBOR plus 455 basis points. On October 22, 2009, the Company entered into the Forbearance Agreement with the lender, pursuant to which, among other things, the lender agreed to forbear from exercising the rights and remedies available to it as a consequence of the existing events of default, except for continuing to impose default rates of interest. The Forbearance Agreement expires on March 31, 2010, or earlier if, among other things, the Company breaches representations and warranties contained in, or defaults on its obligations under, the Forbearance Agreement, or the Company defaults on certain obligations under its loan agreements (other than with respect to certain financial and regulatory covenants) or the Bank becomes subject to receivership by the FDIC or the Company becomes subject to other bankruptcy or insolvency type proceedings. The Forbearance Agreement did not waive any of the Company’s events of default or any other default or event of default, and the lender has not committed to waive any of the existing and continuing events of default following the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement. Upon the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement, the principal and interest amounts that were owed under the Loan Agreements, as modified by earlier covenant waivers, at the time the Forbearance Agreement was entered into will once again become due and payable, along with such other amounts as may have become due during the forbearance period. The Company will not be able to meet any demands for payment of amounts then due at the expiration of the Forbearance Agreement. As a result of the events of default, the lender may, among other remedies, seize the outstanding shares of the Bank’s capital stock held by the Company that have been pledged as collateral for borrowings under the Loan Agreements. If the lender were to take one or more of the above actions, or if the Company is unable to renegotiate, renew, replace or expand its sources of financing on acceptable terms, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operations and ability to continue as a going concern, and investors could lose all or a substantial portion of their investment in the securities of the Company they hold. Upon a liquidation, holders of the Company’s debt securities (including subordinated debt securities underlying the Company’s trust preferred securities) and lenders with respect to other borrowings would be entitled to receive a distribution of the available assets, if any, prior to holders of the Company’s preferred stock and common stock, and holders of preferred stock would be entitled to receive distribution of the available assets, if any, prior to holders of the Company’s common stock. Any decisions by investors and lenders to enter into equity and financing and refinancing transactions with the Company will depend upon a number of factors, including the Company’s historical and projected financial performance, the degree of non-compliance with the terms of its current loan arrangements, industry and market trends, the availability of capital and its investors’ and lenders’ policies and rates applicable thereto, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise sufficient capital to return to compliance under its existing debt arrangements or pay the loans in full. 44 Table of Contents There is a risk that the counterparty to certain of the Bank’s existing repurchase agreements may have the right to terminate the repurchase agreements, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial position and earnings in the period of termination. The agreements with one of the Bank’s repurchase agreement counterparty could permit that counterparty to terminate the repurchase agreements if the Bank does not maintain its well-capitalized status. Because the Bank is not well-capitalized, there is a risk that the counterparty could exercise its option to terminate one or more of these repurchase agreements prior to maturity. At December 31, 2009, the Bank’s repurchase agreements with those provisions totaled $262.7 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 2.76% to 4.65%, maturities ranging from approximately 7.5 to 8.5 years, and quarterly call provisions (at the counterparty’s option). Due to the relatively high fixed rates on these borrowings as compared to currently low market rates of interest, the Bank would incur substantial costs to unwind these repurchase agreements if terminated prior to their maturities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition in the period of payment. The associated unwind costs would be the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the repurchase agreements on the date of termination. Because the repurchase agreements are collateralized at an amount sufficient to cover any such unwind costs which may be incurred, any such costs would result in a charge in the statement of operations but would not be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s liquidity. The Company’s common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. The Company’s common stock is currently listed on Nasdaq. On September 15, 2009, the Company received a letter notifying the Company of failure to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share on Company common stock over the preceding 30 consecutive business days as required by Nasdaq rules. The letter stated that the Company had until March 15, 2010 to demonstrate compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. The Company was not able to satisfy this requirement. On March 11, 2010, Nasdaq notified the Company that it had approved the Company’s application to transfer its common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market to the Nasdaq Capital Market effective March 16, 2010. Nasdaq has advised the Company that it has been granted an additional 180 calendar-day compliance period which will end on September 13, 2010. If the Company does not maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days by September 13, 2010, Nasdaq will notify the Company that its common stock is subject to delisting from Nasdaq. At that time, the Company may appeal Nasdaq’s determination to delist its common stock to a Listing Qualifications Panel. Although the Company was allowed to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market, the perception or possibility that the Company’s common stock could be delisted in the future could negatively affect the liquidity and price of its common stock. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the liquidity of the common stock and, as a result, the market price for the common stock might become more volatile. Delisting could also make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional capital. Although the Company expects that quotes for its common stock would continue to be available on the OTC Bulletin Board or, if it were delisted from Nasdaq, on the “Pink Sheets,” such alternatives are generally considered to be less efficient markets, and the stock price, as well as the liquidity of the common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. Also, in the future the Company could fall out of compliance with other minimum criteria for continued listing, including minimum market capitalization, minimum stockholders’ equity and minimum public float. A failure to meet any of these other continued listing requirements could result in delisting of the Company’s common stock. Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market 45 Table of Contents conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. The Company’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and the Company could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. Concern of the Company’s customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced a new program, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”) where all noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts, including all personal and business checking deposit accounts, and NOW accounts, which are capped at a rate no higher than 0.50%, are fully guaranteed, through June 30, 2010, regardless of dollar amount. The Company has elected to participate in the program. If this program is not extended beyond June 30, 2010, the Company may experience a decrease in deposits. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs, net income, and liquidity. The Bank’s deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future earnings. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted its rule, uniformly increasing the risk-based assessment rates by seven basis points, annually, resulting in a range of risk-based assessment of 12 basis points to 50 basis points. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC board agreed to impose an emergency special assessment of five basis points on all banks to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund to an acceptable level. The assessment, which was payable on September 30, 2009, is in addition to a planned increase in premiums and a change in the way regular premiums are assessed, which the FDIC board previously approved. The cost of this emergency special assessment to the Company was approximately $1.7 million. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC issued new assessment regulations that require FDIC-insured institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012; however certain financial institutions, including the Bank, were exempted from the new prepayment regulations and will continue to pay their risk-based assessments on a quarterly basis. The recent assessment increases and special assessments discussed above, along with any future further assessment increases and special assessments applicable to the Bank, have increased and may continue to increase Banks expenses and adversely impact the Company’s earnings. Future assessments are also expected to increase as a result of the Bank being undercapitalized as of December 31, 2009. FDIC insurance expense has increased substantially, from $2.6 million in 2008 to $9.3 million in 2009, which includes a special assessment. The Company expects to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future, especially until its regulatory capital and risk profile improve. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s DIF and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule which raised deposit insurance premiums, and the FDIC has also implemented a special assessment on all depository institutions. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for 46 Table of Contents future periods. The Bank participates in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee and pays the FDIC a fee for such guarantee. These actions significantly increased the Company’s noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase its costs for the foreseeable future. The Bank’s insurance premiums will also increase as a result of becoming less than “well capitalized.” TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee program has been extended to June 30, 2010. Institutions, such as the Bank, that participate in the extended program are required to pay 15 to 25 basis points annualized fee in accordance with its risk category rating assigned by the FDIC. Defaults by another financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses, or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Company interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Company. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the Company’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when its collateral held cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due the Company. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The widespread effect of falling housing prices on financial markets has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s profitability, liquidity, and financial condition. Turmoil in the financial markets, precipitated by falling housing prices and rising delinquencies and foreclosures, has negatively impacted the valuation of securities supported by real estate collateral, including certain securities owned by the Company. In 2008, the Company has experienced losses of $82.1 million on investments in government sponsored enterprises, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which has materially adversely impacted its capital base. The Company relies on its investment securities portfolio as a source of net interest income and as a means to manage its funding and liquidity needs. If defaults in the underlying collateral are such that the security can no longer meet its debt service requirements, the Company’s net interest income, cash flows, and capital will be reduced. The value of securities in the Company’s investment securities portfolio may be negatively affected by continued disruptions in securities markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has become extremely volatile over the past twelve months. Generally, assets required to be carried at fair value are valued based on quoted market prices or on valuation models that use market data inputs. Because the Company’s carries these assets on its books at their fair values, the Company may incur losses even if the assets in question present minimal credit risk. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value associated with these disruptions will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which 47 Table of Contents would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. If the Company is required to write down goodwill or other intangible assets or if it is required to mark-to-market certain of its assets or further reduce its deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance, its financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. When the Company acquires a business, a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition may be allocated to goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were approximately $77.3 million. Under generally accepted accounting principles, if the Company determines that the carrying value of its goodwill or identifiable intangible assets is impaired, the Company is required to write down the value of these assets. The Company conducts an annual review to determine whether goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are impaired and updates this analysis on an interim basis, under certain circumstances. Under the authoritative guidance for intangibles — goodwill and other (ASC 350), goodwill must be tested for impairment annually and, under certain circumstances, at intervening interim dates. A goodwill impairment test also could be triggered between annual testing dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below the carrying amount. Examples of those events or circumstances would include the following: • significant adverse change in business climate; • significant unanticipated loss of clients/assets under management; • unanticipated loss of key personnel; • sustained periods of poor investment performance; • significant loss of deposits or loans; • significant reductions in profitability; or • significant changes in loan credit quality. The Company’s goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed annually for impairment as of September 30th of each year. This review in 2009 was conducted with the assistance of a third party valuation specialist. Based upon that review, the Company determined that the $78.9 million of goodwill recorded on the September 30, 2009 balance sheet was not impaired. The Company determined that activities in the fourth quarter of 2009, including the Written Agreement with the regulators, the decline in the Bank’s regulatory capital position to undercapitalized, and the significant deterioration in the market price of the Company’s common stock, constituted triggering events requiring an interim goodwill impairment test. As a result of that test, the Company recorded a $14.0 million goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2009. The Company cannot assure that it will not be required to take goodwill impairment charges in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Financial Condition — Goodwill” for a discussion of the methodologies employed and assumptions used in conducting the Company’s annual impairment test. The Company will continue to assess the shortfall in the Company’s equity fair value relative to its total book value and tangible book value, which management currently attributes to both industry-wide and Company-specific factors, and to evaluate whether any additional adjustments are required in the carrying value of goodwill. The Company may be required in a future period to recognize an impairment of all, or some portion, of its remaining goodwill. Any impairment charge would have a negative effect on its stockholders’ equity and financial results. If an impairment charge is significant enough to result in or significantly contribute to negative net income for the period, it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. 48 Table of Contents If the Company decides to sell a loan or a portfolio of loans it is required to classify those loans as held for sale, which requires it to carry such loans at the lower of cost or market. If it decides to sell loans at a time when the fair market value of those loans is less than their carrying value, the adjustment will result in a loss. The Company may from time to time decide to sell particular loans or groups of loans, for example to resolve classified loans, and the required adjustment could negatively affect its financial condition or results of operations. The Company also is required, under generally accepted accounting principles, to assess the need for a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, the Company would be required to reduce its deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance and increase income tax expense. The Company recently established a valuation allowance of $60.0 million related to its deferred tax assets, which contributed significantly to the net loss for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. At December 31, 2009, the valuation allowance increased to $117.1 million and the net deferred tax asset was $4.3 million. The Company may be required to reduce this remaining amount in the future, which would adversely affect the Company’s earnings or exacerbate any net loss. Companies are subject to a change of ownership test under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that, if met, would limit the annual utilization of the pre-change of ownership carryforward as well as the ability to use certain unrealized built-in losses. Under the Company’s planned capital restructuring, it is likely that a change of ownership under Section 302 will occur. Generally, under Section 382, the yearly limitation on the Company’s ability to utilize such deductions will be equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the sum of the values of the Company’s common stock and Series G preferred stock immediately before the ownership change. The Company’s ability to utilize deductions related to credit losses during the twelve-month period following such an ownership change would also be limited under Section 382, together with net operating loss carryforwards, to the extent that such deductions reflect a net loss that was “built-in” to the Company’s assets immediately prior to the ownership change. If the Company’s investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is other than temporarily impaired, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially impaired. The Bank owns common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago (“FHLBC”). The common stock is held to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBC’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of the Company’s FHLBC common stock as of December 31, 2009 was $17.0 million based on its par value. There is no market for the FHLBC common stock. On October 10, 2007, the FHLBC entered into a consensual cease and desist order with the Federal Housing Finance Board, now known as the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”). Under the terms of the order, capital stock repurchases and redemptions, including redemptions upon membership withdrawal or other termination, are prohibited unless the FHLBC receives the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Supervision of the FHFA (the “Director”). The order also provides that dividend declarations are subject to the prior written approval of the Director and required the FHLBC to submit a capital structure plan to the FHFA. The FHLBC has not declared any dividends since the order was issued and it has not received approval of a capital structure plan. In July of 2008, the FHFA amended the order to permit the FHLBC to repurchase or redeem newly-issued capital stock to support new advances, subject to certain conditions set forth in the order. The Company’s FHLBC common stock is not newly-issued and is not affected by this amendment. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System could have materially lower regulatory capital levels due to the application of certain accounting rules and asset quality issues. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBC, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. The Company’s FHLBC common stock is accounted for in accordance with the authoritative guidance for financial services — depository and lending (ASC 942-325-35). This guidance provides that, for impairment testing purposes, the value of long term investments such as FHLBC common stock is based on the “ultimate recoverability” of the par value of the security without regard to temporary declines in value. Consequently, if events occur that give rise to substantial doubt about the ultimate recoverability of the par value of the Company’s FHLBC common stock, this investment could be deemed to be 49 Table of Contents other-than-temporarily impaired, and the impairment loss that would be required to be recorded would cause the Company’s earnings to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment loss. As a bank holding company that conducts substantially all of the Company’s operations through its subsidiaries, its ability to pay dividends, repurchase its shares, or to repay its indebtedness depends upon liquid assets held by the bank holding company, as well as the results of operations of the Company’s subsidiaries. The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to other restrictions. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. The Company’s net income depends primarily upon its net interest income. Net interest income is income that remains after deducting from total income generated by earning assets the interest expense attributable to the acquisition of the funds required to support earning assets. Income from earning assets includes income from loans, investment securities and short-term investments. The amount of interest income is dependent on many factors, including the volume of earning assets, the general level of interest rates, the dynamics of changes in interest rates and the levels of nonperforming loans. The cost of funds varies with the amount of funds necessary to support earning assets, the rates paid to attract and hold deposits, rates paid on borrowed funds and the levels of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and equity capital. Most of the Company’s ability to pay dividends and make payments on its debt securities comes from amounts paid to it by the Bank. Under applicable banking law, the total dividends declared in any calendar year by the Bank may not, without the approval of the Federal Reserve, exceed the aggregate of the Bank’s net profits and retained net profits for the preceding two years. The Bank is also subject to limits on dividends under the Illinois Banking Act. Because of its lack of earnings, the PCA and the Written Agreement, the Bank is prohibited from paying any dividends or making any loans to the Company. If, in the opinion of the federal bank regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the depository institution, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require that the bank cease and desist from the practice. The Federal Reserve has similar authority with respect to bank holding companies. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. Finally, these regulatory authorities have established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by a bank, bank holding company or savings association under their jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in these guidelines has restricted and will continue to restrict the amount of dividends, if any, that the Company and its affiliates can pay in the future. The Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends or to repurchase its shares is also subject to: • the terms of junior subordinated debentures of the Company, pursuant to which it can not declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of its common stock or preferred stock if, at that time, there is a default under the junior subordinated debentures or a related guarantee or it has delayed interest payments on the securities issued under the junior indenture; and • the Company’s outstanding Series A and Series G Preferred Stock, which have preference over the Company’s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends as well as distributions of assets upon liquidation, and no dividends on the common stock may be declared and paid unless and until dividends have been paid on its preferred stock. Furthermore, the Company cannot repurchase its common stock until all dividends have been paid on the Series G Preferred Stock. The Company must seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations. A number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. As discussed under “Business — Recent Developments — 50 Table of Contents Outlook for 2010” and “— Capital Plan,” the Company also is seeking to raise capital in an effort to improve the Company’s capital position and comply with the PCA. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside its control, and on its current and anticipated financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability to raise, sufficient amount of additional capital, as part of its Capital Plan or otherwise, or on terms acceptable to it. If the Company cannot raise, sufficient amount of additional capital it may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as further described under “Risk Factors-If the Company fails to raise additional capital in a timely manner, the Company may be forced to seek bankruptcy and/or the Bank could be placed under FDIC receivership. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal and state tax laws. The Company’s effective tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in federal or state tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations. In this regard, recent changes in Illinois laws may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. Under prior tax law, the Company enjoyed favorable tax treatment with respect to the dividends it received from Midwest Funding, L.L.C., a captive real estate investment trust, or a REIT. A change in Illinois tax law relating to the deductibility of captive REIT dividends eliminated this tax benefit beginning January 1, 2009, and increased the Company’s effective tax rate beginning in that year. In addition, in connection with the determination of the Company’s provision for income and other taxes and during the preparation of its tax returns, management makes certain judgments based upon reasonable interpretations of tax laws, regulations and agency interpretations which are inherently complex. Management’s interpretations are subject to challenge upon audit by the tax authorities, which have become increasingly aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions, including certain positions that the Company has taken. If the Company is not successful in defending the tax positions that it has taken, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruptions or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing, or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions or breach in security could result in a loss of customer business, costly remedial actions, or legal liabilities and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of the Company’s information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, the Company outsources a portion of its data processing to a third party. If the Company’s third party provider encounters difficulties or if the Company has difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect the Company’s business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party’s technology may also cause reimbursable loss to the Company’s consumer and business customers, through no fault of its own. The occurrence of any failures, 51 Table of Contents interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company continually encounters technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is subject to various reporting requirements that increase compliance costs, and failure to comply timely could adversely affect its reputation and the value of its securities. The Company is required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, the Company is required to include management and independent auditor reports on internal controls as part of its Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Company expects to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. In addition, pursuant to the Written Agreement, the Company is required to prepare and submit various reports to its regulators and may face further reporting obligations in the future due to its financial condition. Compliance with various regulatory reporting requires significant commitments of time from management and its directors, which reduces the time available for the performance of their other responsibilities. The Company’s failure to track and comply with the various rules may materially adversely affect its reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, lead to additional regulatory enforcement actions, and could adversely affect the value of its securities. The Company’s ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings and may be adversely affected by compensation and employment restrictions to which it may be subject. The Company’s success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of its officers and employees in its market areas. If the Company loses key employees, temporarily or permanently, its business could be hurt. The Company could be particularly hurt if its key employees leave to work for the Company’s competitors. The Company’s future success depends on the continued contributions of its existing senior management personnel. Both the Company and the Bank are currently required to obtain regulatory approval to add new executive officers or directors or to enter into any agreement to provide indemnification or severance payments. The personal and financial disclosures required by the regulators of prospective executives and directors are detailed and invasive. For this reason, the Company may not be able to attract qualified candidates who are willing to provide the necessary disclosures. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have indicated they are considering policies to change financial institutions compensation to avoid promoting undue risk taking. The terms of these policies are unknown, and the timing and effects of any such policies on the Company are also unknown. 52 Table of Contents The Company’s business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which it operates. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation and supervision. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Recent legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines, are increasing the Company’s costs of doing business and, as a result, may create an advantage for its competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and regulatory requirements. In addition, future regulatory changes, including changes to regulatory capital requirements, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future results. In addition, the federal and state bank regulatory authorities who supervise the Company have broad discretionary powers to take enforcement actions against banks for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws or regulations, it could become subject to enforcement actions that have a material adverse effect on its future results. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, EESA, was enacted. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators have implemented and may continue to implement a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, TLG Program, which the Company did not “opt-out” of. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will issue any guaranteed debt under the TLG Program, or that the Company will participate in any other stabilization programs in the future. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Congress, U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address recent liquidity and credit instability crises. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. On February 17, 2009, President Barack Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package. ARRA includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposes new executive compensation and corporate governance limits on current and future participants in TARP, including the Company, which are in addition to those previously announced by U.S. Treasury. The new limits remain in place until the participant has redeemed the preferred stock sold to U.S. Treasury, subject to U.S. Treasury’s consultation with the recipient’s appropriate federal regulator. There can also be no assurance as to the ultimate impact that the EESA, the ARRA, the programs promulgated under these acts and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The EESA, the ARRA and the programs enacted under these acts are relatively new legislation and regulations and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that such changes will have on the effectiveness of the EESA, the ARRA or on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 53 Table of Contents The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above and which may be proposed in the future may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect the Company’s ability to retain its highest performing employees. The ARRA imposes new executive compensation limits on participants in TARP, including the Company, which are in addition to those previously announced by U.S. Treasury. The ARRA and regulations promulgated under the ARRA contain numerous limitations on the amount and form of compensation that may be paid to the highest paid employees, including restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company’s proxy statement, restrictions on severance payments to the ten highest paid employees, and requirements for the repayment of bonuses in certain circumstances by the 25 highest paid employees. It is possible that the Company may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits it to retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, the Company’s business and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The Company is subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility. From time to time, customers make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for the Company’s products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Future sales of the Company’s common stock or other securities will dilute the ownership interests of its existing stockholders and could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company will need to issue additional shares of common stock in the near future to meet its capital needs and regulatory requirements. The Company can issue common stock without stockholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in its amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (the “Certificate of Incorporation”). The Company’s Board of Directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities including securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of the Company’s common stock, subject to limitations imposed by Nasdaq and the Federal Reserve. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by the Company’s current stockholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities by the Company in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the Company’s existing stockholders. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company’s common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities in the public market by its stockholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to decline. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of its common stock. Therefore, the Company can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company’s ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock. 54 Table of Contents The Company cannot guarantee whether such financing will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company is unable to obtain future financing, it may not have the capital and financial resources it requires for its business or that are necessary to meet regulatory requirements. Shares of the Company’s preferred stock may be issued in the future which could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock. The Company has the authority under its Certificate of Incorporation to issue additional series of preferred stock and to determine the designations, preferences, rights and qualifications or restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action of its stockholders. The rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued by the Company in the future. Offerings of debt, which could be senior to the Company’s common stock upon liquidation, or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to its common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company may attempt to increase its capital resources or, it could be forced to raise additional capital through other securities offerings, including trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Holders of the Company’s debt securities and other lenders, as well as holders of the Company’s preferred securities generally will be entitled to receive distributions of its available assets prior to distributions to the holders of its common stock upon the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Company’s existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Company’s common stock, or both. Holders of the Company’s common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The outstanding shares of the Company’s Series G preferred stock may be converted by the U.S. Treasury at any time or will be converted if certain conditions are met, which will dilute the Company’s existing stockholders in the case of conversion. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends on those shares is restricted. On March 8, 2010, the U.S. Treasury exchanged the 84,784 shares of Series T preferred stock, having an aggregate approximate liquidation preference of $84.8 million, plus approximately $4.6 million in cumulative dividends not declared or paid on such preferred stock, for a new series of fixed rate cumulative mandatorily convertible preferred stock, Series G, with the same liquidation preference. The warrant dated December 5, 2008 to purchase 4,282,020 shares of common stock was also amended to re-set the strike price of the warrant to be consistent with the conversion price of the Series G preferred stock. The U.S. Treasury has the authority to convert the new preferred stock into the Company’s common stock at any time. In addition, the Company can compel a conversion of the new preferred stock into common stock, subject to the following conditions: (i) the Company receives appropriate approvals from the Federal Reserve; (ii) approximately $78.6 million principal amount of the Company’s revolving, senior, and subordinated debt shall have previously been converted into common stock on terms acceptable to the U.S. Treasury in its sole discretion; (iii) the Company shall have completed a new cash equity raise of not less than $125 million on terms acceptable to the U.S. Treasury in its sole discretion; and (iv) the Company has made the anti-dilution adjustments to the new preferred stock, if any, as required by the terms thereof. Unless earlier converted, the new preferred stock converts automatically into shares of the Company’s common stock on March 8, 2017. If the outstanding shares of the Company’s Series G preferred stock are converted by the U.S. Treasury, it will dilute the Company’s existing stockholders. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends on those shares is restricted. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of the Company’s business, the Company may own or foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs 55 Table of Contents incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Company may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If the Company ever becomes subject to significant environmental liabilities, the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base; impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures and is insured for these situations, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Non-Compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or Other Laws and Regulations Could Result in Fines or Sanctions, and Curtail Expansion Opportunities Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury’s office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. The Company has developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. Provisions in the Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company by a third party. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and its amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control or acquire the Company without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and may make it more difficult for dissident stockholders to elect representatives as directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions of the Company’s governing documents may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that some or many of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 56 Table of Contents 