Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this report or in other SEC filings by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s financial results could suffer if the Company is unable to implement and successfully manage its core strategic initiatives or if the Company’s core strategic initiatives do not achieve the intended results. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement and successfully manage its core strategic initiatives, including its four major strategic initiatives, or that the core strategic initiatives will achieve the intended results, which include sales volume growth. The Company’s four major strategic initiatives include: (i) expanding geographically in countries where end users could benefit from or continue to benefit from using the WD-40 brand; (ii) maximizing its position in the multi-purpose maintenance products line by focusing its research and development resources to leverage its multi-purpose maintenance products and adjacent categories; (iii) developing its business through acquisitions, joint ventures and/or other strategic partnerships; and (iv) leveraging the trust the WD-40 brand has established with its wide user base to grow the Company’s revenues and profits. If the Company is unable to implement and successfully manage its core strategic initiatives in accordance with its business plans, the Company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain that implementation of its core strategic initiatives will necessarily advance its business or financial results as intended. Cost increases in finished goods, components, raw materials, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Increases in the cost of finished goods, components and raw materials and increases in the cost of transportation and other necessary supplies or services may harm the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Petroleum-based products and aerosol cans, which constitute a significant portion of the costs for many of the Company’s products, have experienced significant price volatility in the past, and may continue to do so in the future. Fluctuations in oil prices have also impacted the Company’s cost of transporting its products. As component and raw material costs are the principal contributors to the cost of goods sold for all of the Company’s products, any significant fluctuation in the costs of components and raw materials could have a material impact on the gross margins realized on the Company’s products. Specifically, aerosol can prices are exposed to fluctuations resulting from changes in the cost of tinplate used to manufacture such cans. In the event there is significant volatility in the Company’s cost of goods or increases in raw material and/or component costs or the costs of transportation and other necessary supplies or services, the Company may not be able to maintain its gross margins if it chooses not to raise its product sales prices. Should the Company choose to increase product sales prices to offset cost increases, such increases may adversely affect demand and unit sales. Sustained increases in the cost of raw materials, components, transportation and other necessary supplies or services, or significant volatility in such costs, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on a limited base of third-party contract manufacturers, logistics providers and suppliers of raw materials and components may result in disruption to the Company’s business and this could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies on a limited number of third-party contract manufacturers, logistics providers and suppliers, including single or sole source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components and other necessary supplies. The Company does not have direct control over the management or business of these third parties, except indirectly through terms as negotiated in service or supply contracts. Should the terms of doing business with the Company’s primary third-party contract manufacturers, suppliers and/or logistics providers change or should the Company have a disagreement with or be unable to maintain relationships with such third parties or such third parties experience financial difficulties, the Company’s business may be disrupted 6 Table of Contents which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the Company is unable to contract with third-party manufacturers or suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for its business, the Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results could be adversely affected. Global economic conditions may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A general weakening or decline in the global economy or a reduction in business or consumer spending or confidence, could delay or significantly decrease purchases of the Company’s products by its customers, which include retail and home center stores, warehouse club stores, grocery stores, hardware stores, automotive parts outlets and industrial distributors and suppliers. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, which may include the Company’s multi-purpose maintenance products and homecare and cleaning products, often decline during periods where disposable income is reduced or there is economic uncertainty, and this may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, during unfavorable or uncertain economic times, consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or non-branded products and the Company’s competitors may increase their level of promotional activities to maintain sales volumes, both of which may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s sales and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions, including inflation, deflation, prolonged weak consumer demand or other changes which may affect the principal markets in which the Company conducts its business. If economic or market conditions in the United States or other key global markets deteriorate, the Company may experience material adverse effects on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent periods, particularly in fiscal year 2009, consumer and business confidence and spending deteriorated significantly as the economy entered a recession. Although global economic conditions improved in fiscal year 2010, there is still uncertainty in the global economy, and there is no guarantee that the global economy will remain in this improved state. Adverse economic and market conditions could also harm the Company’s business by negatively affecting the parties with whom it does business, including its customers, retailers, distributors and wholesalers, and third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers. These conditions could impair the ability of the Company’s customers to pay for products they have purchased from the Company. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable from the Company’s customers may increase. In addition, the Company’s third-party contract manufacturers and its suppliers may experience financial difficulties that could negatively affect their operations and their ability to supply the Company with finished goods and the raw materials, packaging, and components required for the Company’s products. The Company faces significant competition in its markets, particularly those related to its homecare and cleaning products, which could lead to reduced profitability. The Company faces significant competition from other consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in international markets. Many of the Company’s products, particularly its homecare and cleaning products, compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic” non-branded products of the Company’s customers in certain categories, which are typically sold at lower prices. The Company also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major national or multinational companies. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, quality or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product, whether improved or newly developed, usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. 7 Table of Contents Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at sales prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its investment in marketing or reduce sales prices and may lead to reduced profit margins or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Global operations outside the U.S. expose the Company to uncertain conditions, foreign currency exchange rate risk and other risks in international markets. The Company’s sales outside of the U.S. were approximately 54% of consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2010 and its strategy includes expanding its operations globally. The Company faces, and will continue to face, substantial risks associated with having global operations outside the U.S., including: • economic or political instability in its international markets, including Latin America, the Middle East, parts of Asia, Eastern Europe and Russia; • restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the U.S., including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and • the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions or other governmental actions. These risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to sell its products on a competitive basis in global markets outside the U.S. and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, it is not fully protected against foreign currency fluctuations and, therefore, the Company’s reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. Additionally, the Company’s global operations outside the U.S. are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences. Sales volume growth may be difficult to achieve. The Company’s ability to achieve sales volume growth will depend on its ability to (i) execute its core strategic initiatives, which include among other things, geographic expansion and business development through acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing and/or other strategic partnerships, (ii) drive growth within its existing markets through innovation, renovation and enhanced merchandising and marketing of its established brands and (iii) capture market share from its competitors. In order to protect the Company’s existing market share or capture additional market share from its competitors, the Company may need to increase its expenditures related 8 Table of Contents to promotions and advertising or introduce and establish new products. In past periods, the Company has also increased sales prices on certain of its products in response to increased costs for components and raw materials. Sales price increases may slow sales volume growth or create declines in volume in the short term as customers adjust to sales price increases. In addition, a change in the strategies of the Company’s existing customers, including shelf simplification, the discontinuation of certain product offerings or the shift in shelf space to competitors’ products could reduce the Company’s sales and potentially offset sales volume increases achieved as a result of other sales growth initiatives. If the Company is unable to increase market share in its existing product lines by developing product improvements, investing adequately in its existing brands, building usage among new customers, developing, acquiring or successfully launching new products, or successfully penetrating new and developing markets globally, the Company may not achieve its sales volume growth objectives. Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of customers, which include mass retail customers, account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. The Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be derived from this limited number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies of the Company’s largest customers, including shelf simplification, a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift in shelf space to “private label” or competitors’ products, may harm the Company’s sales. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any of the Company’s most significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s brand values, business, financial condition and results of operations. Large customers also seek price reductions, added support or promotional concessions, all of which may negatively impact the Company’s ability to maintain existing profit margins. In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. The Company is also subject to changes in customer purchasing patterns. These types of changes may result from changes in the manner in which customers purchase and manage inventory levels, or display and promote products within their stores. Other potential factors such as customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters may also impact operating results. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The Company may not successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions. The Company’s future performance and growth depend, in part, on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products as both brand extensions and/or line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The Company competes in several product categories where there are frequent introductions of new products and line extensions. The ability of the Company to understand consumer preferences is key to maintaining and improving the competitiveness of its product offerings. The development and introduction of new products, as well as the renovation of current products and product lines, require substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new or renovated products do not gain widespread market acceptance. There are inherent risks associated with new product development and marketing efforts, including product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the cost of failed product introductions. As the Company continues to focus on innovation and renovation, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in the event that the Company is not able to effectively develop and introduce new or renovated products and line extensions. 9 Table of Contents Government regulations and environmental laws and regulations could result in material costs or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The manufacturing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of the Company’s products and the manner in which the Company’s business operations are conducted must comply with extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. If the Company is not successful in complying with all such regulations or changes to existing regulations, it could be fined and this could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. It is also possible that governments will increase regulation of the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals, to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and that such regulation could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain raw materials, components and/or finished goods or could result in increased costs. In the event that such regulations result in increased product costs, the Company may not be in a position to raise selling prices, and therefore an increase in costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the Company’s products have chemical compositions that are controlled by various state, federal and international laws and regulations. The Company is required to comply with these laws and regulations and seeks to anticipate regulatory developments that could impact the Company’s ability to continue to produce and market its products. The Company invests in research and development to maintain product formulations that comply with such laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to alter the chemical composition of one or more of the Company’s products in a way that will have an adverse effect upon the product’s efficacy or marketability. A delay or other inability of the Company to complete product research and development in response to any such regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In previous years, the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”), one of the most influential state environmental agencies in the United States, has released regulations that have required the Company to reformulate certain of its multi-purpose maintenance products. During 2008, CARB approved regulatory amendments to establish lower limits for Volatile Organic Compounds (“VOCs”) in certain regulated consumer products, including multi-purpose lubricants and penetrants and aerosol spot removers, which will require reductions in the levels of VOCs in each product category by dates specified in the amendments. For multi-purpose lubricants and penetrants, the amendments require a reduction in VOC levels from the current standard of 50% by weight to 25% by December 31, 2013 and to 10% by December 31, 2015. For aerosol spot removers, the amendments require a reduction in VOC levels from the current standard of 18% by weight to 15% by December 31, 2012. The Company is required to reformulate certain of its multi-purpose maintenance products and its Spot Shot brand aerosol spot remover in order to comply with these lower limits on VOC content. There can be no assurance that reformulation of the Company’s products can be accomplished at a commercially reasonable cost or without having an adverse impact on product performance. The inability of the Company to successfully reformulate its products to comply with these regulatory amendments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is also subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on its business operations, including, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations may otherwise relate to various health and safety matters that impose burdens upon the Company’s operations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and also require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that its expenditures related to environmental matters have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the environmental laws under which the Company operates are complicated, often become increasingly more stringent and may be applied retroactively. 10 Table of Contents Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to incur additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations If the success and reputation of one or more of the Company’s leading brands erodes, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. The financial success of the Company is directly dependent on the success and reputation of its brands, particularly its WD-40 brand. The success and reputation of the Company’s brands can suffer if marketing plans or product development and improvement initiatives do not have the desired impact on the brands’ image or do not attract customers as intended. The Company’s brands can also be adversely impacted due to the activities and pressures placed on them by the Company’s competitors. Further, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted if one of its leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality or safety issues. Although the Company makes every effort to prevent brand erosion and preserve its reputation and the reputation of its brands, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to impairment risk. The Company assesses the potential impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill during the second fiscal quarter of each fiscal year and otherwise when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The Company also assesses its definite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment when events and circumstances indicate that such impairment may exist. Events and circumstances that the Company considers important which could trigger impairment include matters such as the following: • Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • Significant changes in the extent or manner to which an acquired asset is being utilized by the Company; • Significant negative industry or global economic trends; • Significant decline in the Company’s stock price for a sustained period; • Decreased market capitalization relative to net book value; • Unanticipated competitive activities; • Loss of key distribution; • Change in consumer demand; • Loss of key personnel; and • Acts by governments and courts. The Company assesses potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of intangible assets and the implied fair value of goodwill to their carrying values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. The Company assesses potential impairment of intangible assets using a two-step process. The Company compares the undiscounted future cash flows of the intangible assets to the 11 Table of Contents carrying value. If the undiscounted cash flows of the asset are less than the carrying value, the Company assesses potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of intangible assets to their carrying values. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. The Company estimates fair value using a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant management judgment and estimates with respect to, among other considerations, forecasted sales revenue, advertising and promotional expenses, cost of products sold, gross margins, operating margins, the success of product innovations and introductions, customer retention, tax rates, terminal growth values and the selection of appropriate discount and royalty rates. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and it is reasonably likely that assumptions and estimates will change in future periods. These changes could result in future impairments to the Company’s intangible assets and goodwill. The Company faces challenges related to its homecare and cleaning product brands, which have short differentiated life cycles and often need continuous innovation, renovation and/or continuous marketing support to address consumers’ changing needs and tastes. As a result of the dynamic nature of this product line, the ability to understand consumer preferences and innovate and/or renovate is key to the ongoing success of the homecare and cleaning product brands. In the event that the Company is unable to meet consumer preferences through innovation and/or renovation or achieve forecasted sales revenue levels, its homecare and cleaning product brands and product offerings may be at risk of future impairment. During fiscal year 2009, the Company recorded impairments to certain of its homecare and cleaning product brands based on the results of its annual or subsequent events and circumstances driven impairment tests. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company determined, while performing its annual impairment tests, that its indefinite-lived intangible asset related to its Carpet Fresh brand was impaired as of February 28, 2009. Due to the declines in profit margin and forecasted sales revenue for the Carpet Fresh brand, both of which occurred during the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company concluded that the Carpet Fresh trade name was impaired by $2.8 million as of February 28, 2009. The decline in forecasted sales revenue for the Carpet Fresh brand resulted from the Company’s strategic decision to focus its research and development resources on its multi-purpose maintenance products and not its homecare and cleaning products, the loss of distribution with a significant U.S. mass retail customer and assumed lower future foreign currency exchange rates in the U.K. and Australia. While some of these factors also impacted the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Company’s other homecare and cleaning product brands, they did not result in impairment to any of such other indefinite-lived intangible assets as of February 28, 2009. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2009, the Company reevaluated its indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that indicators of potential impairment existed due to lower than forecasted sales revenue for several of its homecare and cleaning products, including the Carpet Fresh, X-14, Spot Shot and 2000 Flushes brands. As a result, the Company tested these indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment for both periods. For the test conducted during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company concluded that no impairment existed as of May 31, 2009. For the test conducted during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company concluded that the intangible assets associated with its Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names were impaired by $3.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2009. Due to the continued sales declines in fiscal year 2009 and the lower level of forecasted sales for the Carpet Fresh and X-14 brands which have been caused by a variety of factors, including lost distribution and the Company’s strategic decision to focus its research and development resources on its multi-purpose maintenance products, the Company concluded that these two brands should no longer be considered to have indefinite lives. As a result, effective August 31, 2009, the Company changed the classification of the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names from indefinite-lived to definite-lived intangible assets. The Company began to amortize the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names on a straight-line basis effective September 1, 2009 based on their estimated remaining useful lives of thirteen and eight years, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, no impairment of the Company’s indefinite-lived or definite-lived intangible assets related to its homecare and cleaning product brands has been identified or recorded. However, if significant marketing and other initiatives related to these brands are not successful, they could potentially become impaired in the future. Negative changes in the Company’s assumptions and estimates, such as royalty rates, forecasted sales revenue, advertising and promotional expenses, cost of products sold, gross margins, operating margins, the success of product innovations and introductions, customer retention, development of new and/or alternative distribution channels, tax rates and terminal growth values, could result in impairment of its intangible assets. The Company will continue to closely monitor events and circumstances that could result in impairment of its intangible assets. It is possible that changes in circumstances or in the variables, assumptions and estimates used by the Company to assess the fair value of its intangible assets, could change in the future and require the Company to record impairment charges. The Company’s operating results and financial performance may not meet expectations which could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The Company cannot be sure that its operating results and financial performance, which include sales growth, net income, earnings per common share, gross margin and cash flows, will meet expectations. If the Company’s assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition, or if the Company does not achieve all of its key goals or core strategic initiatives, then the Company’s actual performance could vary materially from its internal and market expectations. Failure to meet or exceed these expectations could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline. The Company’s operating results and financial performance may be influenced by a number of factors, including the following: • Significant increases in the costs of finished goods, components, raw materials and/or transportation; • The impact of general economic and market conditions in the U.S. and in other countries in which the Company currently does business; • Changes in product sales prices by the Company or its competitors and consumer and customer reactions to such sales price changes; • The introduction of new products and line extensions by the Company or its competitors; • The mix of products sold with varying profitability in a given period; • The mix of products sold within different channels and countries with varying profitability in a given period; • The Company’s ability to control internal costs; • The effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs; • The availability and cost of debt financing; • The ability of the Company to execute its core strategic initiatives and to maintain and enhance profits in the face of a consolidating retail environment; • The ability of the Company to achieve its business plans, including sales volume growth and sales pricing plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity; 13 Table of Contents • The ability of the Company to maintain key customer relationships; • The ability of the Company to maintain key supplier, third-party contract manufacturer and logistics provider relationships; • The ability of the Company to generate expected cost savings and efficiencies; • The ability of the Company to maintain the value of its brands; • The ability of major customers and other debtors to meet their obligations as they come due; • The failure of parties contracting with the Company to perform their obligations and the loss of or inability to renew contracts of importance to the Company’s performance; • The Company’s reliance on brokers for the grocery and industrial channels; • The ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including resolution of pending matters within current estimates; • The substantial costs associated with regulatory compliance; • The ability of the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel; • The expenses associated with the potential impairment of the Company’s goodwill, trade names and other intangible assets and the potential impairment or obsolescence of its property, plant and equipment; • The ability to maintain the overall quality of new and existing products; • The ability of the Company to penetrate and grow domestic and international markets and distribution channels; • The ability of the Company to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the countries in which it does business; • The impact of foreign import and export restrictions or other trade regulations; • Changes to cash flow resulting from the Company’s operating results, tax payments, tax settlements, debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchases; • The ability of the Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions regarding obsolescence; • Changes in accounting policies and accounting standards; • The impact of any litigation or product liability claims; and • Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes. In addition, sales volume growth, whether due to acquisitions or internal growth, can place burdens on management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating results and financial condition of the Company. To some extent, the Company plans its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenues fall short of these expectations, operating results and the financial condition of the Company are likely to be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Resolutions of income tax disputes may impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective income tax rate and in evaluating tax positions, particularly those related to uncertain tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by the accounting standard for uncertain tax positions. Changes in uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, impact the Company’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax matter may require the adjustment of tax assets or tax liabilities or the use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 11 – Income Taxes of the consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15 of this report. The Company’s business development activities may not be successful. The Company seeks to increase growth through business development activities such as acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing and/or other strategic partnerships in the United States and internationally. However, if the Company is not able to identify, acquire and successfully integrate acquired products or companies or successfully manage joint ventures or other strategic partnerships, the Company may not be able to maximize these opportunities. The failure to properly manage business development activities because of difficulties in the assimilation of operations and products, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the loss of key employees or other factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company’s business development activities will be profitable at their inception or that they will achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic partnerships could also result in the incurrence of debt, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and/or increased operating expenses, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s business development activities diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record impairments to goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such activities, which could also adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not have sufficient cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends. The Company has historically paid out a large part of its earnings to stockholders in the form of regular quarterly cash dividends. Historically, acquisitions that have been executed by the Company have been funded to a large extent by debt. In order to service the debt, the Company is required to use its income from operations to make interest and principal payments required by the terms of the loan agreements. In addition, the Company is required by covenants within the loan agreements to maintain certain financial ratios and compliance with other financial terms. The Company has historically paid regular quarterly cash dividends on its common stock. On October 1, 2010, the Board of Directors declared an 8% increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend, increasing it from $0.25 per share to $0.27 per share. However, if operating income is not sufficient to properly service the Company’s debt or otherwise allow the Company to maintain compliance with the terms of its loans, the Company could be required to seek additional financing by incurring additional debt or through the sale of equity securities, or the Company might be required to reduce dividends. The Company may incur substantial additional debt in the future for other reasons, including acquisitions or other business development activities. To the extent that the Company is required to seek additional financing by 15 Table of Contents incurring additional debt or selling equity securities, such financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the Company’s related risks could become more significant. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert the Company’s intellectual property rights or infringement by the Company on the intellectual property rights of others could impact its competitiveness or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend its intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, it may be that the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, or they may be difficult to enforce. If other companies infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights or take part in counterfeiting activities, they may dilute the value of the Company’s brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value the consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure of the Company to perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights or to protect its other proprietary information could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease the use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and an obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future if the holders of such rights are willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims and other litigation could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. While the Company makes every effort to ensure that the products it develops and markets are safe for consumers, the use of the Company’s products may expose the Company to liability claims resulting from such use. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning their use or interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products were determined to be defective, the Company could be required to recall the product, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. The Company maintains product liability insurance that it believes will be adequate to protect the Company from material loss attributable to such claims but the extent of such loss could exceed available limits of insurance or could arise out of circumstances under which such insurance coverage would be unavailable. Other business activities of the Company may also expose the Company to litigation risks, including risks that may not be covered by insurance. If successful claims are asserted by third parties against the Company for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of applicable limits of insurance coverage, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, the Company’s products may be associated with competitor products or other products in the same category, which may be alleged to have caused harm to consumers. As a result of this association, the Company may be named in unwarranted legal actions. The potential costs to defend such claims may materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Changes in marketing distributor relationships that are not managed successfully by the Company could result in a disruption in one or more of the affected markets. The Company distributes its products throughout the world in one of two ways: the Direct Distribution model, in which products are sold directly by the Company to wholesalers and retailers in the U.S., Canada, Australia, China, the U.K. and a number of other countries throughout Europe; and the Marketing Distributor model, in which products are sold to marketing distributors who in turn sell to wholesalers and retailers. The Marketing Distributor model is generally used in certain countries where the Company does not have direct Company-owned operations. Instead, the Company partners with local companies who perform the sales, marketing and distribution functions. The Company invests time and resources in these relationships. Should key personnel change and/or the relationship change or terminate, the Company could be at risk until such time as a suitable replacement can be found and the Company’s key marketing strategies implemented. There is a risk that changes in such marketing distributor relationships that are not managed successfully could result in a disruption in one or more of the affected markets and that such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in some countries, local laws may require substantial payments to terminate existing relationships, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The operations of the Company and its third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials and components are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s control. Operations of the Company and the operations of its third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials and components are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers, supply chain disruptions, increased costs for finished goods, components and/or raw materials or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has certain business continuity plans in place to respond to such events, there is no assurance that such plans are adequate or would be successfully implemented. The Company may experience difficulties with or malfunctions of the critical information systems that it uses for the daily operations of its business and this could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. System failure, malfunction or loss of data which is housed in the Company’s critical information systems could disrupt its ability to timely and accurately process transactions and produce key financial reports, including information on the Company’s operating results, financial position and cash flows. The Company’s information systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to a number of reasons, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches. Although the Company has certain business continuity plans in place to address such service interruptions, there is no guarantee that these business continuity plans will provide alternative processes in a timely manner. As a result, the Company may experience interruptions in its ability to manage its daily operations and this could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the information system that the U.S. office uses for its business operations is a market specific application which is not widely used by other companies. The company that owns and supports this application may not be able to provide the same level of support as that of companies which own larger, more widely spread information systems. If the company that supports this application in the U.S. were to cease its operations or were unable to provide continued support for this application, it could adversely affect the Company’s daily operations or its business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Compliance with changing regulations and standards for accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and this could negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including new SEC regulations, new NASDAQ Stock Market rules, new accounting requirements and the expected future requirement to transition to international financial reporting standards are creating uncertainty and additional complexities for the Company. To maintain high standards of accounting and financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, the Company intends to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all such evolving standards and requirements. These investments may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities, either of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s continued growth and expansion could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting which could harm its business and financial condition. Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting per the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records in reasonable detail such that they accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions, providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management’s authorization, policies and procedures and providing reasonable assurance that the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected in a timely manner. The Company’s continued growth and expansion, particularly in global markets, will place additional pressure and risk on the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure by the Company to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting associated with such growth and expansion could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 