Item 1A. Risk Factors We do not know the exact amount or timing of liquidation distributions. We cannot assure you of the precise nature and amount of any distribution to the Beneficiaries. The timing of the distributions will be based in part upon our analysis of the risk of our requirement to pay our landlord based upon the fact that we are currently liable under the terms of the lease. We have sublet the property for an amount equal to our lease payments, but the tenant has filed for bankruptcy on March 8, 2008. Because our contingent liability is currently in excess of the amount of our assets, we believe it imprudent to make any distribution. We are currently unable to predict the precise timing of any distributions to the Beneficiaries, also in part due to the fact that a creditor could seek an injunction against making distributions to the Beneficiaries on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed for the payment of liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount, if any, available for distribution to the Beneficiaries. Beneficiaries may be liable to creditors for amounts from us, or the Company, prior to its dissolution, if our reserves are inadequate. If we make distributions to the Beneficiaries without making adequate provisions for payment of creditors’ claims, the Beneficiaries would be liable to the creditors to the extent of the unlawful distributions. The liability of a Beneficiary is, however, limited to the amounts previously received by such Beneficiary from us (or from the Company prior to its dissolution). Accordingly, in such event, a Beneficiary could be required to return all liquidating distributions previously made to the Beneficiary. Moreover, in the event a Beneficiary has paid taxes on amounts previously received, as a liquidation distribution, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in the Beneficiary incurring a net tax cost if the Beneficiary’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. The Company believes that it has made adequate provisions for payment of creditors’ claims and does not anticipate making any further distribution until such time as it believes that there will be no more claims against the Company or the Trust. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 