ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our Company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. Recession and changes in domestic and foreign financial markets may have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Economic indices have shown that since the fourth quarter of 2007, the United States economy has been in a recession. This has been reflected in significant business failures and job losses, which job losses were excess of 500,000 in each of November and December 2008. Job losses at this level are expected to continue during the first quarter of 2009. -6- Index In addition, in the past year, the domestic and foreign financial markets, securities trading markets and economies generally have experienced significant turmoil including, without limitation, government takeovers of troubled institutions, government brokered mergers of such firms to avoid bankruptcy or failures, bankruptcies of securities trading firms and insurance companies, failures of financial institutions and securities brokerage firms, significant declines in real property values, and wide fluctuations in energy prices, all of which have contributed to reduced availability of credit for businesses and consumers, significant levels of foreclosures on residential and commercial properties, falling home prices, reduced liquidity and a lack of stability across the entire financial sector. These recent events and the corresponding uncertainty and decline in financial markets are likely to continue for the foreseeable future. The full extent of the repercussions to our nation’s economy in general and our business in particular are not fully known at this time. Such events are likely to have a negative effect on (i) our ability to service our existing customers and attract new customers, (ii) the ability of our borrowers to operate their business as successfully as in the past, (iii) the financial security and net worth of our customers, and (iv) the ability of our customers to repay their loans with us in accordance with the terms thereof. Even though we have enhanced our total shareholders equity with the proceeds of the $15.6 million we received in funds from the Treasury under its Troubled Asset Relief Program – Capital Purchase Program (“TARP-CPP”) (discussed below), such developments could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. The recently enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”), the Financial Stability Plan (“FSP”), the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) and the Homeowner Affordability and Stabilization Plan (“HASP”), and the numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and others are intended to address the liquidity and credit crisis, and to stabilize the U.S. banking, financial securities and housing markets. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide “back-stop” liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions as a result of our participation in the TARP Program. As a result of our participation in the TARP-CPP, we must adopt the Treasury's standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds an equity position acquired under the TARP-CPP. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Credit Officer and up to the two next most highly compensated executive officers (collectively, the “senior executive officers”). The standards include: (i) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executive officers does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of our Company, (ii) requiring clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate, (iii) prohibiting golden parachute payments to a senior executive officer, including severance payments for any reason and (iv) our agreement not to deduct for tax purposes compensation to a senior executive officer in excess of $500,000. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods or impact our ability to attract and retain quality executive personnel. We will be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for so long as the Treasury holds any equity securities issued as a result of our participation in TARP-CPP. This period could be more than ten years. -7- Index Reserve for credit losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities, and nonpayment, if it occurs, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operation. We maintain a reserve for credit losses to absorb estimated probable credit losses inherent in the loan and commitment portfolios as of the balance sheet date. After a provision of $5.3 million for the year, as of December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $7.3 million or 1.61% of loans held for investment. In determining the level of the reserve for credit losses, our management makes various assumptions and judgments about the loan portfolio. We rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on historical loss experience, volume and types of loans, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies and non-accruals, national and local economic conditions and other pertinent information known at the time of the analysis. If management’s assumptions are incorrect, the reserve for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations. While the allowance was determined to be adequate at December 31, 2008, based on the information available to us at the time, there can be no assurance that the allowance will be adequate in the future. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company has experienced some deterioration and certain downgrades to specific loans in its portfolio. As a result, and to enhance the overall general reserve, it is likely that the Company will make substantial provisions to the allowance for loan losses in the first quarter of 2009, and if further losses come to light, the Company will record such provisions in the period in which the losses are incurred. All of our lending involves underwriting risks. As of December 31, 2008, commercial business loans represented 12.7% of our total loan portfolio; real estate loans represented 22.1% of our total loan portfolio; SBA loans represented 28.4% of our total loan portfolio and manufactured housing loans represented 32.4% of our total portfolio. All such lending, even when secured by the assets of a business, involves considerable risk of loss in the event of failure of the business. To reduce such risk, we typically take additional security interests in other collateral of the borrower, such as real property, certificates of deposit or life insurance, and/or obtain personal guarantees. In light of the economic downturn, our efforts to reduce risk of loss may not prove sufficient as the value of the additional collateral or personal guarantees may be significantly reduced. There can be no assurances that we have taken sufficient collateral or the values thereof will be sufficient to repay loans in accordance with their terms. Our dependence on real estate concentrated in the State of California. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $195.8 million, or 33.3%, of our loan portfolio is secured by various forms of real estate, including residential and commercial real estate. A further decline in current economic conditions or rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans and the value of real estate and other collateral securing loans. The real estate securing our loan portfolio is concentrated in California. The decline in real estate values could harm the financial condition of our borrowers and the collateral for our loans will provide less security and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Curtailment of government guaranteed loan programs could affect a segment of our business. A major segment of our business consists of originating and periodically selling government guaranteed loans, in particular those guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. From time to time, the government agencies that guarantee these loans reach their internal limits and cease to guarantee loans. In addition, these agencies may change their rules for loans or Congress may adopt legislation that would have the effect of discontinuing or changing the loan programs. Non-governmental programs could replace government programs for some borrowers, but the terms might not be equally acceptable. Therefore, if these changes occur, the volume of loans to small business, industrial and agricultural borrowers of the types that now qualify for government guaranteed loans could decline. Also, the profitability of these loans could decline. As the funding of the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans is a major portion of our business, the long-term resolution to the funding for the 7(a) loan program may have an unfavorable impact on our future performance and results of operations. -8- Index Our small business customers may lack the resources to weather a downturn in the economy. One of the primary focal points of our business development and marketing strategy is serving the banking and financial services needs of small- and medium-sized businesses and professional organizations. Small businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than do larger entities. If economic conditions are generally unfavorable in our service areas, the businesses of our lending clients and their ability to repay outstanding loans may be negatively affected. As a consequence, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Environmental laws could force the Company to pay for environmental problems. When a borrower defaults on a loan secured by real property, we generally purchase the property in foreclosure or accept a deed to the property surrendered by the borrower. We may also take over the management of commercial properties when owners have defaulted on loans. While we have guidelines intended to exclude properties with an unreasonable risk of contamination, hazardous substances may exist on some of the properties that we own, manage or occupy and unknown hazardous risks could impact the value of real estate collateral. We face the risk that environmental laws could force us to clean up the properties at our expense. It may cost much more to clean a property than the property is worth. We could also be liable for pollution generated by a borrower’s operations if we took a role in managing those operations after default. Resale of contaminated properties may also be difficult. Fluctuations in interest rates may reduce profitability. Changes in interest rates affect interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as interest expense. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, primarily loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, the shape of the yield curve, the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates may affect the demand of customers for products and services. As interest rates change, we expect to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. This means that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, changes in market interest rates may have a negative impact on our earnings. Responding to economic sluggishness and recession concerns, the Federal Reserve Board, through its Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”), cut the target federal funds rate beginning in September 2007 to historically low levels. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board, while designed to help the economy overall, may negatively impact the Bank’s earnings. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of loans and the ability to realize gains from the sale of loans, all of which ultimately affect earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, under terms that are not favorable, to maintain liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, losses may be incurred. Risks due to economic conditions and environmental disasters in the regions we serve may adversely affect our operations. The Company serves three primary regions: the Tri-Counties region which consists of San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and Ventura counties in the state of California, the SBA Western Region where the Bank originates SBA loans (Arizona, California, Oregon, Colorado, Oregon, Utah and Washington) and the SBA Southeast Region (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, North and South Carolina, New Jersey, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, Washington DC and metro New York City). The current economic slowdown in those regions as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, fires and earthquakes could result in the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business: · loan delinquencies may increase; · problem assets and foreclosures may increase; -9- Index · demand for our products and services may decline; and · collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect profitability. The banking industry is highly competitive. We face increased competition not only from other financial institutions within the markets we serve, but deregulation has resulted in competition from companies not typically associated with financial services as well as companies accessed through the internet. As a community bank, the Bank attempts to combat this increased competition by developing and offering new products and increased quality of services. Ultimately, competition can drive down the Bank’s interest margins and reduce profitability and make it more difficult to increase the size of the loan portfolio and deposit base. Regulatory considerations may adversely affect our operations. As a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act, we are regulated, supervised and examined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or Federal Reserve Board. This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds and not for the protection of our shareholders. As a result of this regulatory framework, our earnings are affected by actions of the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "Comptroller"), which regulates the Bank, and the FDIC, which insures the deposits of the Bank within certain limits. In addition, there are numerous governmental requirements and regulations that affect our business activities. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business. Depository institutions, like the Bank, are also affected by various federal laws, including those relating to consumer protection and similar matters. The holding company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. However, our principal source of cash revenues is the payment of dividends from the Bank. There are various legal and regulatory limitations on the extent to which the Bank can finance or otherwise supply funds to us and our other affiliates. As a national bank, the prior approval of the Comptroller is required if the total of all dividends declared and paid to the Bank in any calendar year exceeds the Bank’s net earnings for that year combined with their retained net earnings less dividends paid for the preceding two calendar years. Government agencies regulations also dictate the following: · the amount of capital we must maintain; · the types of activities in which we can engage; · the types and amounts of investments we can make; · the locations of our offices; · insurance of our deposits and the premiums paid for the insurance; and · how much cash we must set aside as reserves for deposits. The regulations impose limitations on operations and may be changed at any time, possibly causing future results to vary significantly from past results. Regulations can significantly increase the cost of doing business such as increased deposit insurance premiums imposed by the FDIC to be paid in 2009. Moreover, certain of these regulations contain significant punitive sanctions for violations, including monetary penalties and limitations on a bank’s ability to implement components of its business plan. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements may act to add costs associated with compliance efforts. Furthermore, government policy and regulation, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affect credit conditions. -10- Index Operational risks may result in losses. Operational risk represents the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, transaction processing errors and breaches of internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. Operational risks are inherent in all business activities and the management of these risks is important to the achievement of our objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to our reputation. We manage operational risks through a risk management framework and our internal control processes. While we believe that we have designed effective methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute assurance that business disruption or operational losses would not occur in the event of disaster. An information systems interruption or breach in security might result in loss of customers. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct business. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide key components of information system infrastructure, including loan, deposit and general ledger processing, internet connections, and network access. Any disruption in service of these key components could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct operations. Furthermore, any security breach of information systems or data, whether managed by the Company or by third parties, could harm our reputation or cause a decrease in the number of our customers. We may depend on technology and technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better service to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We face the risk of having to keep up with the rapid technological changes. Loss of key management personnel may adversely affect our operations. The Bank is operated by key management personnel in each department of the Bank, including executive, lending, finance, operations and retail banking. Many of these key staff members have been employed by the Bank for a number of years and, accordingly, have developed expertise and a loyal customer following. In the event that a key management member were to terminate employment with the Bank, the effect may be to impair the Bank’s ability to operate as effectively as it does at the present time, or in the case of a former employee being hired by a competitor, may result in a loss of customers to a competitor. In addition, the loss of services of any of our executive officers, or their failure to adequately perform their management functions, would make it difficult for us to continue to grow our business, obtain and retain customers, and set up and maintain appropriate internal controls for our operations. If any member of our executive officers does not perform up to expectations, our results of operations could suffer and our current plans to expand and become more profitable may not succeed. Finally, if any of our executive officers decides to leave, it may be difficult to replace her or him and we would lose the benefit of the knowledge she or he gained during her or his tenure with us. Changes in accounting policies may adversely affect the reported results of operations. The financial statements prepared by the Company are subject to various guidelines and requirements promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and bank regulatory agencies. The adoption of new or revised accounting standards may adversely affect the reported results of operation. -11- Index Litigation risks may have a material impact on our assets or results of operations. We are involved in various matters of litigation in the ordinary course of business which, historically, have not been material to our assets or results of operations. No assurances can be given that future litigation may not have a material impact on our assets or results of operations. Geopolitical concerns and the heightened risk of terrorism have negatively affected the stock market and the global economy. Stock prices domestically and around the world have been and continue to be adversely affected by geopolitical concerns and the heightened risk of terrorism. In addition to negatively affecting the stock markets, the geopolitical concerns and the heightened risk of terrorism have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the national and global economy because of the uncertainties that exist as to the instabilities in the Middle East and elsewhere, and as to how the U.S. and other countries will respond to terrorist threats or actions. All of these uncertainties may contribute to a global slowdown in economic activity. An overall weakened economy may have the effect of decreasing loan demand, increasing loan delinquencies and generally causing our results of operations and our financial condition to suffer. Certain restrictions will affect our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as a result of our decision to participate in the TARP-CPP. As a result of our participation in the TARP-CPP, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our common stock will be limited. Specifically, we will not be able to declare dividends payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”). Further, while we are permitted to pay stock dividends, effectuate stocks splits and reverse stock splits, we will not be permitted to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock without the Treasury's approval until the third anniversary of the investment unless the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares will be restricted. Treasury consent generally will be required for us to make any stock repurchases until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the Series A Preferred stock dividends to the Treasury. For more information regarding our Series A Preferred Stock, including the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the Series A Preferred Stock that may affect the holders of our common Stock, please refer to the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on December 18, 2008 and December 24, 2008, the Certificate of Determination of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the SEC on December 18, 2008, and the Form of Certificate for the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 3 . The Series A Preferred Stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our Common Stock. The dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to the Treasury (the “Warrant”) in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the Warrant represent approximately 8.8% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. -12- Index ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 