D. RISK FACTORS The current financial crisis and economic downturn may have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. The current global financial crisis and economic downturn have adversely affected economies and businesses around the world, including in China. Due to the global economical downturn and a decrease in consumer demand, the economic situation in China has been quite severe since the second half of 2008. This change in the macro-economic conditions has and is expected to continue to have an adverse impact on our business and operations. The financial and economic situation may also have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business. As a result, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenues and operating results are inherently unpredictable, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Factors that are likely to cause these fluctuations, some of which are outside of our control, include, without limitation, the following: • the current economic environment and other developments in the telecommunications industry; • the mix of our products sold, including inventory items with low product costs; • our ability to control expenses; • fluctuations in demand for and sales of our products, the acceptance of our products in the marketplace, and the general level of spending in the telecommunications industry; • our ability to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity, and particularly to limit excess capacity commensurate with the volatile demand levels for our products; • our ability to successfully complete a transition to an outsourced manufacturing model; • the ability of our outsourced manufacturers to timely produce and deliver subcomponents, and possibly complete products in the quantity and of the quality we require; • competitive factors, including the introduction of new products and product enhancements by competitors and potential competitors, pricing pressures, and the competitive environment in the markets into which we sell our products, including competitors with substantially greater resources than we have; • our ability to effectively develop, introduce, manufacture, and ship new and enhanced products in a timely manner without defects; • the availability and cost of components for our products; • new product introductions that may result in increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are incurred in one quarter, with revenues, if any, that are not recognized until a subsequent or later quarter; and 7 Table of Contents • the unpredictability of consumer demand and difficulties in meeting such demand. A high percentage of our expenses, including those related to manufacturing, engineering, sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions, is fixed in the short term. As a result, if we experience delays in generating and recognizing revenue, our quarterly operating results are likely to be seriously harmed. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Our results for one quarter should not be relied upon as any indication of our future performance. It is possible that in future quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our stock price is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in February 1999, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of other telecommunications companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of telecommunications-related companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of technology innovations, new products, or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • any deviation from projected growth rates in revenues; • any loss of a major customer or a major customer order; • additions or departures of key management or engineering personnel; • any deviations in our net revenue or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of telecommunications-related companies. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many high technology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We experience intense competition with respect to our products. Some of our competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, some of these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products. In addition, our competitors that have larger market capitalization or cash reserves are better positioned than we are to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our product lines. We are subject to a concentration of credit risk. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of each customer’s financial condition. We maintain reserves for potential credit losses and such losses in the aggregate have not exceeded management’s projections. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, our five largest accounts receivable accounted for approximately 60.7% and 93.7% of our total accounts receivable. 8 Table of Contents The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries and creates significant risks. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the government, economic reform policies since 1978 have emphasized decentralization and the utilization of market mechanisms in the development of the Chinese economy. We have significantly benefited from such reforms, as the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications since 1994 has opened the telecommunications equipment market of China to all kinds of manufacturers. Our management believes that the basic principles underlying the reforms will continue to provide an acceptable framework of the PRC’s political and economic systems. In addition, we currently see no evidence that this refinement and readjustment process may adversely affect, directly or indirectly, the Company’s operations in the future. As substantially all of our operations are conducted in Mainland China, we are subject to special considerations and significant risks not typically associated with companies operating in North America and Western Europe. These include risks associated with, among others, the political, economic and legal environments and foreign currency exchange. Our results may be adversely affected by changes in the political and social conditions in Mainland China, and by changes in governmental policies with respect to laws and regulations, anti-inflationary measures, currency conversion and remittance abroad, and rates and methods of taxation, among other things. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi (“Rmb”) which must be converted into other currencies before remittance outside Mainland China. Both the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies and the remittance of foreign currencies abroad require the approval of the Mainland Chinese government. Our currency is not freely convertible. The State Administration for Exchange Control (“SAEC”), under the authority of the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System (“CFETS”) market. Since substantially all of our raw materials are provided by local suppliers using Renminbi and the majority of our expenses are denominated in Renminbi, restrictions on currency conversions did not materially affect our operations. Also, since we do not expect to require any raw material that are not permitted or are limited to purchase using foreign currencies, our management believes that such restriction will not materially affect our operations in the future. However, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and our other holdings and investments, and our operating subsidiaries located in China may be subject to restrictions on the conversion of Renminbi to U.S. dollars and, as a result, may be restricted to make distributions to us. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage for damage to our Chinese factories. We have no direct business operation, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries located in China, and our results of operations and financial condition are currently solely dependent on our subsidiaries’ factories in China. We currently maintain fire, casualty and theft insurance covering various of our stock in trade, goods and merchandise, furniture and equipment, and factory buildings in China. The proceeds of this insurance may not sufficiently cover material damage to, or the loss of, any of our factories due to fire, severe weather, flooding or other cause, and such damage or loss would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, business and prospects. However, we have not materially suffered from such damage or loss to date. The discontinuation of the preferential tax treatment currently available to our PRC subsidiary, CEC Telecom Co., Ltd., could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our PRC operating subsidiary, CEC Telecom Co., Ltd. (“CECT”), was subject to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law Concerning Foreign-Invested Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises. CECT, as a foreign-invested enterprise, 9 Table of Contents was generally subject to enterprise income tax at a statutory rate of 33% (30% national income tax plus 3% local income tax) through 2007 under this law and its related regulations, and 25% from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described below. However, as a “high-tech enterprise” formed in the Zhongguancun Science Park high technology zone in Beijing, CECT enjoyed preferential tax treatment through 2007. In particular, CECT was exempted from enterprise income tax from May 22, 2000 to December 31, 2002 and was entitled to preferential enterprise income tax rates of 7.5% from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 and 15% from January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which law took effect as of January 1, 2008. In accordance with the new tax law, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards will be applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises such as CECT. However, certain qualifying high-technology enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the new tax law if they meet the definition of “qualifying high-technology enterprise” to be set forth in the more detailed implementing rules when they are adopted. As a result, if CECT qualifies as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise”, it will continue to benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15%. Before being qualified as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, CECT’s applicable tax rate increased from its then existing tax rate of 15% to the unified tax rate of 25% effective January 1, 2008. The Chinese tax authorities issued “Circular 362 (Guo Ke Fa Huo [2008] No. 362)” on 11 July 2008 (“Circular 362”) that provides detailed implementation guidance on identifying and approving “qualifying high-technology enterprise” status. Circular 362 follows the April 2008 issuance of “Circular 172 (Guo Ke Fa Huo [2008] No. 172),” China’s first step in creating a mechanism to identify and approve “qualifying high-technology enterprise” status. CECT is currently in the process of applying for the status of “qualifying high-technology enterprise”. If the application is approved, CECT will be qualified to apply for a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15%. We cannot assure you that CECT will qualify as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, and even if CECT successfully obtains this high-tech enterprise status, its preferential tax treatment may be discontinued by the tax authorities at their discretion or pursuant to any future changes in PRC tax laws, rules or regulations. Before being qualified as a “qualifying high-technology enterprise” under the new tax law, CECT is subject to a 25% rate from January 1, 2008 under the new tax law described above, which significantly increases our effective tax rate and materially adversely affects our operating results. The dividends that our BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries receive from their subsidiaries in the PRC and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our foreign corporate holders of ordinary shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon any dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where our investment holding subsidiaries are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If these BVI-incorporated investment holding subsidiaries are considered non-resident enterprises, this new 10% withholding tax imposed on their dividend income received from their PRC subsidiaries would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Under the new tax law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new tax law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if our BVI-incorporated investment holding 10 Table of Contents subsidiaries are classified as resident enterprises, the dividends they receive from their PRC subsidiaries may be exempted from income tax. In addition, under the new tax law, foreign corporate holders of our ordinary shares may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign corporate holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the return on an investment in our ordinary shares by a foreign corporation. We depend upon certain key personnel to manage our company. Our ability to successfully carry out our business plans continues to be largely dependent upon the efforts of our senior management and executive officers, particularly our chairman, Rui Lin Wu. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Wu and the loss of his services would have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our business objectives. Further, we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policy on his life. We are controlled by one of our shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. Rui Lin Wu, our chief executive officer and chairman, and members of his family beneficially own or control approximately 43.2% of our outstanding shares as of June 30, 2010. Accordingly, he has substantial control and influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also has the power to prevent or cause a change in control. In addition, without his consent, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of this shareholder may differ from the interests of the other shareholders. Our holding company structure creates restrictions on the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in loan agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. If future dividends are paid in Renminbi, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars may adversely affect the amount received by U.S. shareholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. As a “foreign private issuer”, we are not subject to certain rules promulgated by Nasdaq that other Nasdaq-listed issuers are required to comply with. Our common shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and, for so long as our securities continue to be listed, we will remain subject to the rules and regulations established by Nasdaq applicable to listed companies. As permitted under Nasdaq rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we have determined not to comply with the following Nasdaq rules: • our independent directors do not hold regularly scheduled meetings in executive session; • the compensation of our executive officers is not determined by an independent committee of the board or by the independent members of the board of directors, and our CEO may be present and participate in the deliberations concerning his compensation; • related party transactions are not required to be reviewed or approved by our audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors; and 11 Table of Contents • we are not required to solicit shareholder approval of stock plans, including those in which our officers or directors may participate; stock issuances that will result in a change in control; the issuance of our stock in related party transactions or other transactions in which we may issue 20% or more of our outstanding shares; or, below market issuances of 20% or more of our outstanding shares to any person. We may in the future determine to voluntarily comply with one or more of the foregoing provisions. It may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us or our management. We are a British Virgin Islands holding company, and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon them. Moreover, there is doubt as to whether the courts of the British Virgin Islands or China would enforce: • judgments of United States courts against us, our directors or our officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands or China, liabilities against us or non-residents based upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Some information about us may be unavailable due to exemptions under the Exchange Act for a foreign private issuer. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules under the Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States domestic public companies, including: • the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction. Because of these exemptions, investors are not provided with the same information which is generally available about domestic public companies organized in the United States. Since we are a British Virgin Islands company, the rights of our shareholders may be more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Under the laws of most jurisdictions in the United States, majority and controlling shareholders generally have certain fiduciary responsibilities to the minority shareholders. Shareholder action must be taken in good faith, and actions by controlling shareholders which are obviously unreasonable may be declared null and void. British Virgin Island law protecting the interests of minority shareholders may not be as protective in all circumstances as the law protecting minority shareholders in U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the circumstances in which a shareholder of a BVI company may sue the company derivatively, and the procedures and defenses that may be available to the company, may result in the rights of shareholders of a BVI company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the U.S. Furthermore, our directors have the power to take certain actions without shareholder approval which would require shareholder approval under the laws of most U.S. jurisdictions. The directors of a BVI corporation, subject in 12 Table of Contents certain cases to court approval but without shareholder approval, may implement a reorganization, merger or consolidation, the sale of any assets, property, part of the business, or securities of the corporation. Our ability to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in our control without any further action by the shareholders, including a tender offer to purchase our common stock at a premium over then current market prices. Risk Factors Regarding Our Mining Operations in China Fluctuations in the market price of molybdenum could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations. The Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows depend significantly upon the market price of molybdenum, which has historically fluctuated considerably. Molybdenum prices depend primarily on the demand in the end-user markets in which molybdenum is used. The end-user markets for molybdenum are primarily the steel and chemical industries. These industries, as well as other industries that use molybdenum, exhibit a cyclical business cycle. Many of the factors that affect the demand for molybdenum are beyond the Company’s control, including the general level of industrial production in the PRC and other countries, interest rates, the rate of inflation and the stability of exchange rates. Such external factors are influenced by changes in international investment markets, international monetary systems and internal and external political developments. The volatility in molybdenum prices is illustrated by the range of average molybdenum prices from 1999 to 2009 from a low of US$2.35 per pound to a high of $31.98 per pound of molybdenum. Future declines in the price of molybdenum could materially reduce the Company’s working capital, profitability and cash flows from operations. Severe declines in the molybdenum price could cause the Company to temporarily close its molybdenum mine and plant facilities. Furthermore, a significant decrease in molybdenum prices could require the Company to revise its mineral reserve calculations and life-of-mine plans. Such a revision could result in material write-downs of the Company’s proven and probable reserves and other long-lived assets and have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Estimates of proven and probable mineral reserves and other mineralized material may prove to be inaccurate. Estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material involve numerous assumptions and are subject to numerous uncertainties. The estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material disclosed herein are, therefore, only estimates. Therefore, the Company cannot provide assurance that its estimates of tonnages, grade and contained molybdenum of proven and probable reserves and tonnages and grade of other mineralized material will be achieved in the future, that the indicated level of recovery will be realized or that the Company can mine and process the estimated proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material profitably. The actual production of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material depends on a number of factors including, among others, geological and mining conditions, the effects of government regulation, prevailing molybdenum prices, exchange rates, interest rates and inflation rates, operating costs, development costs, equipment and plant maintenance costs, site restoration costs and the availability and cost of labor, equipment, raw materials and other services required to mine and process the ore. Furthermore, the Company cannot provide assurance that the recovery rates it produced in small-scale laboratory tests can be duplicated in on-site conditions during production. Estimates of proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, including the classifications thereof based on probability of recovery, may vary substantially if prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times. If the Company’s actual proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material are less than its estimates disclosed herein, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially impaired. The Company’s exploration activities may not result in discoveries of proven and probable reserves and commercial quantities of molybdenum. Exploration and development of mineral deposits involves substantial risks. Only a few properties that are explored are eventually developed into producing mines, and the success of exploration activities depends on a number of factors, including the attributes of the deposit such as size and grade, prevailing molybdenum prices and 13 Table of Contents government regulations relating to exploration and mining rights, royalties, etc. Exploration activities may need to occur for a number of years before commercially viable ore deposits are discovered and developed, and the Company may incur substantial expenses to locate and establish proven and probable reserves and to construct mining and processing facilities. The Company cannot provide assurance that exploration and development activities will give rise to new commercial mining operations or result in new proven and probable reserves. The Company’s revenues for its mining operations are primarily dependent on its production of molybdenum. The Company’s ability to sustain current molybdenum production levels or to increase molybdenum production levels depends on its ability to bring new mines into production or to expand proven and probable reserves at the existing mine. The Company generates revenues from its mining operations primarily through the production and sale of molybdenum. Without any future expansion or other development, production from the existing mine is expected to decline over the life of the mine. Furthermore, the production estimates in the life-of-mine plan for its existing mining operation may vary materially from the actual production because the feasibility of extracting and processing proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material is dependent on market conditions, the regulatory environment and available technology. Therefore, the Company’s ability to maintain its current production or increase its annual production of molybdenum and generate revenues depends to a large extent on its ability to discover or acquire new proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, to bring new mines into production and to expand the proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material at its existing mine. Mining operations are subject to conditions or events beyond the Company’s control which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations. The Company’s insurance policies may not adequately cover all these risks and hazards. Mining operations, including the exploration and development of mineral deposits, involve a high degree of risk. The Company’s operations are subject to a host of hazards and risks normally associated with the exploration, development and production of molybdenum. These hazards and risks include, among others, adverse environmental conditions, hazardous or inclement weather conditions, accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected geologic formations, ground or slope failures, structural cave-ins or slides, flooding or fires, seismic activity and equipment failures. These hazards and risks could give rise to, among other impacts, damage to, or destruction of, the mine, processing facilities and equipment. The hazards and risks could also cause personal injury or death, delays in mining, monetary losses and potential legal liability. The Company’s insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with its mining operations. Certain of the Company’s risks are insurable, but it may be unable to maintain insurance to cover the hazards and risks at affordable premiums. Furthermore, insurance to cover risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards as a result of mining or processing operations is generally not available on acceptable terms. The Company could, therefore, become subject to liability for pollution or other risks for which it does not have insurance or against which the Company elects not to obtain insurance because of premium costs or other factors. Uninsured risks may cause the Company to incur significant costs that could have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company may not be able to acquire desirable mining assets in the future. The Company intends to grow its business by selectively acquiring attractive and high-quality mining assets in the future through strategic acquisitions, but there is no assurance the Company will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities. The Company’s ability to acquire and integrate future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to the Company may be limited by the number of desirable acquisition targets, internal demands on its resources, competition from other mining companies and its ability to finance such acquisitions on satisfactory terms. The development of mining projects is inherently risky and may require more capital than anticipated, which could adversely affect the cash flows of the Company. 14 Table of Contents There are many risks and uncertainties inherent in all mining development projects, including the ongoing development of the Company’s underground mine. The economic feasibility of mining development projects is dependent on many factors, including the accuracy of estimated proven and probable reserves and other mineralized material, metallurgical recoveries, capital and operating costs and the future prices of the relevant minerals. The capital expenditures and time required to develop new mines or infrastructure in existing mines are considerable, and changes in costs or construction schedules can affect project economics. It is, therefore, possible that the actual costs and economic returns on mining development projects may differ materially from our estimates. New mining development projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. Mining development projects also require the successful completion of feasibility studies, the acquisition of government permits, the acquisition of exploration or mining rights, negotiating energy and water supplies and other factors. It is possible that the Company could fail to successfully complete these and other factors associated with a mine development project, in which case the project may not proceed, either on its original timing or at all. It is not unusual for new mining operations to experience problems during the development or start-up phases of the project, resulting in delays in producing revenue and increases in invested capital. Intense competition in the mining industry could reduce the Company’s market share or harm its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The mining industry is extremely competitive, and the Company competes with many mining companies that possess greater financial and technical resources. Because mineral rights have a limited life, the Company must compete with other mining companies who also seek to increase their mineral reserves through the acquisition of exploration and mining rights. Furthermore, the Company competes with other mining companies for the technical expertise to find, develop and operate its mining properties, for skilled labor, for equipment and spare parts and for the capital to fund the acquisition, development and operation of its properties. Existing or future competition in the mining industry could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The temporary shutdown of the Company’s mining operations could expose it to significant costs and adversely affect its access to skilled labor. The Company may have to temporarily shut down its mine from time to time if it no longer considers the mine to be commercially viable. There are a number of factors that may cause the Company to reach a conclusion that the operation of the mine is no longer commercially viable, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include adverse changes in interest rates or currency exchange rates, decreases in the prevailing price of molybdenum or the market rates for treatment and refining charges and increases in transportation and labor costs. During a temporary shutdown of its mine, the Company would have to continue to expend capital to maintain the plant and equipment. The Company may incur significant labor costs as a result of a temporary shutdown if it is required to give employees notice prior to any layoff or to pay severance for an extended layoff. In addition, temporary shutdowns may adversely affect the Company’s future access to skilled labor, as employees who are laid off may seek employment elsewhere. Furthermore, if the Company’s mining operations are shut down for an extended period of time, it may be required to engage in environmental remediation of the plant and mine sites, which would result in the Company incurring additional costs. Taking into consideration the costs of a temporary shutdown, the Company may choose to operate the mine at a loss rather than shut down the property. Either a temporary shutdown or continuing to operate the mine at a loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s mining operations give rise to environmental risk. All of the Company’s mining operations are subject to environmental regulation in the PRC. Environmental regulation is evolving in the PRC and may in the future require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. The Company can provide no assurance that existing or future environmental regulation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company owns or has control of properties that may result in a requirement to remediate such properties that could involve material costs. Furthermore, environmental hazards may exist on the properties on which it holds interests that are unknown to the Company at the present time that have been 15 Table of Contents caused by previous owners or operators of the properties. The Company may also acquire properties in the future that pose environmental risks. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements in the PRC may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective action requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. The Company may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage from the mining operations and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations.. Future changes to current laws, regulations and permits governing the operations and activities of mining companies in the PRC, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Such changes could result in increases in exploration expenses, remedial and reclamation obligations, capital expenditures or production costs, reductions in the levels of production at the producing mine or abandonment or delays in the development of new mining properties or the expansion of the existing property. Mineral ores and mineral products, including molybdenum ore and molybdenum products, contain naturally occurring impurities and toxic substances. The Company has implemented procedures designed to identify, isolate and safely remove or reduce impurities or toxic substances that are naturally occurring in molybdenum ore and molybdenum products. Such procedures require strict adherence, and the Company cannot provide assurance that employees, contractors or other parties will adhere to these procedures or will not be exposed to or affected by such impurities and toxic substances. Employees, contractors and other parties who are exposed to or affected by these impurities and toxic substances may give rise to liabilities by the Company. Even if procedures are strictly adhered to by employees, contractors and other parties, there is still a risk that they will be exposed to or affected by impurities and toxic substances in the course of operations of the mine. Such incidences may result in requirements that the Company take remedial action, may result in the curtailment of mining operations and may have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Reclamation and mine closure costs could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Currently in the PRC, mining companies are required to make payments to government entities for reclamation and mine closure costs. The government entities actually perform the reclamation and mine closure work to restore the mine site. Presently, mining companies must pay a sewage charge to the Mongolia Environmental Protection Bureau at a rate of RMB15 per ton of extracted ore, multiplied by 0.94. Mining companies must pay a one-time fee to the State Treasury equal to Rmb15,000 — Rmb75,000/ hectare as determined through negotiations with government authorities and based upon the underground areas which have been mined and the nature of the mine. The Company cannot provide assurance that national or regional governments in the PRC will not increase these charges or create laws or regulations to make additional charges on mining companies in the future. National or regional governments may also create laws or regulations to require mining companies to perform some or all of the reclamation and closure activities themselves in the future. Future changes to reclamation and mine closure requirements in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Title to some of the Company’s exploration and mining rights could be challenged or defective. The acquisition of title to exploration and mining rights in the PRC is a very detailed and time-consuming process, and title to such rights may be disputed, challenged or impaired. Third parties may assert valid claims to some of the Company’s interests in exploration and mining rights. As a result, the Company may be impaired in its ability to explore or mine on its properties or unable to enforce its rights with respect to such properties. An impairment to, or defect in, the Company’s title to its exploration and mining rights could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents The Company is required to obtain government permits in order to conduct mining operations. The Company must currently obtain government approvals and permits to operate its mine in the PRC. Further approvals and permits may be required in the future. The ability of the Company to obtain permits from the government of the PRC is contingent upon many factors outside of its control. Obtaining governmental permits may increase costs and cause delays depending on the nature of the activity to be permitted and the interpretation of applicable requirements by government authorities. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to obtain all necessary permits for its mining operations in the future, and if it obtains them, that the costs involved will not exceed the Company’s estimates. To the extent the Company is unable to obtain or renew required permits, its mining operations may be curtailed, or the Company may not be able to proceed with planned exploration, development or operation of mineral properties. Increased energy prices or a disruption of energy supply could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Mining operations, plant and facilities are intensive users of electricity and carbon-based fuels. Numerous factors beyond the Company’s control influence energy prices, including global and regional supply and demand, political and economic conditions and applicable regulatory regimes. The prices of various sources of energy may increase significantly compared to current levels, and such an increase could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A disruption in the transmission of energy to the mine site, the lack of sufficient energy transmission infrastructure or the termination of energy supply contracts could interrupt the Company’s energy supply and adversely affect mining operations. An interruption of the Company’s energy supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption of transportation services or increased transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s mining operations. If transportation of the Company’s molybdenum and other mineral products becomes unavailable, the Company’s ability to market its products would be diminished. Furthermore, increases in the Company’s transportation costs relative to those of its competitors could make the Company’s mining operations less competitive. Disruption of transportation services or increases in transportation costs could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s mining business depends on good relations with its employees. Production at the Company’s mining operations depends on the efforts of its employees. Changes in labor laws or in the Company’s relationships with its employees could result in strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents 