Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. Global Signal Merger—The Global Signal Merger may cause disruptions in our business, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. The Global Signal Merger could cause disruptions in or otherwise negatively impact our business. Among other things: • the business combination of Global Signal with us may disrupt our business relationships with our customers, who may delay or defer decisions about current and future agreements with us because of the merger; • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which might adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key managers and other employees; and • the attention of management may be directed toward the integration of Global Signal with us and away from other business operations. Performance of Assets Acquired in the Global Signal Merger—The assets acquired in the Global Signal Merger may not perform as expected, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In evaluating the anticipated benefits of a potential transaction with Global Signal, we performed due diligence on Global Signal’s tower portfolio and other assets to be acquired in the Global Signal Merger, which due diligence included, among other things, analyzing tower locations, visiting select towers, evaluating radio frequency information, and evaluating potential carrier customer demand. The results of this due diligence were used to support assumptions that were made by us in creating financial models to evaluate the potential future performance of Global Signal’s assets and the combined company. There can be no assurances that the towers and other assets of Global Signal will perform as expected by us based on our due diligence and provide us with the benefits that have been anticipated. A variety of factors could cause these assets not to provide such benefits, including, among other things: • the inability to procure additional ground space at existing tower locations; • local and state restrictions on the ability to modify such towers; and • latent structural weaknesses associated with such towers and the related cost of repairing, reinforcing or upgrading them. If Global Signal’s assets fail to perform as expected or we fail to otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of Global Signal’s assets for these or other reasons, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Integration of Global Signal—The integration of Global Signal is expected to result in substantial expenses and may present significant challenges. We may face significant challenges in combining Global Signal’s operations in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key Global Signal personnel. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. The failure to successfully integrate Global Signal’s business and to manage the challenges presented by the integration process successfully, including the retention of key Global Signal personnel, may result in us and our stockholders not achieving the anticipated potential benefits of the Global Signal Merger. 13 Table of Contents Achieving the benefits of the Global Signal Merger will depend in part on the integration of Global Signal’s operations, wireless communications tower portfolio and personnel in a timely and efficient manner and our ability to realize the anticipated synergies from this integration. This integration may be difficult and unpredictable for many reasons, including, among others, the size of Global Signal’s wireless communications tower portfolio and because Global Signal’s and our internal systems and processes were developed without regard to such integration. Successful integration of Global Signal also requires coordination of personnel, which may be difficult and unpredictable because of possible cultural conflicts and differences in policies, procedures and operations between the companies and the different geographical locations of the companies and their assets. If the integration is not successful, we might not realize the expected benefits of the merger, which could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock after the merger. We expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the Global Signal business into our policies, procedures, operations and systems. There are a large number of systems that must be integrated, including management information, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll and benefits, lease administration systems and regulatory compliance. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the Global Signal business may offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all, and there are a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Our Business Depends on the Demand for Wireless Communications and Towers—We may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand, including a slowdown attributable to wireless carrier consolidation or by the sharing of networks by wireless carriers. Demand for our towers depends on demand for antenna space from our customers, which, in turn, depends on the demand for wireless services. The willingness of our customers to utilize our infrastructure, or renew existing leases on our towers, will be affected by numerous factors, including: • consumer demand for wireless services; • availability and location of our towers and alternative towers; • cost of capital, including interest rates; • availability of capital to our customers; • willingness to co-locate equipment; • local and state restrictions on the proliferation of towers; • cost of building towers; • technological changes affecting the number or type of communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area; • our ability to efficiently satisfy our customer’s service requirements; and • tax policies. A slowdown in demand for a particular wireless segment may adversely affect the demand for our towers. Moreover, some wireless carriers operate with substantial indebtedness, and financial problems for our customers may result in accounts receivable going uncollected, the loss of a customer (and associated lease revenue) or a reduced ability of these customers to finance expansion activities. A slowdown in the deployment of equipment for new wireless technologies, the consolidation of wireless carriers, the sharing of networks by wireless carriers or the increased use of alternative sites may also adversely affect the demand for our towers. In addition, advances in technology, such as the development of new antenna systems, new terrestrial deployment technologies and new satellite systems, may reduce the need for land-based, or terrestrial, transmission networks or our towers. To some extent, almost all of the above factors have occurred in recent years with an adverse effect on our business, and such factors are likely to persist in the future. The occurrence of any of these factors may negatively impact our revenues, result in an impairment of our assets or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. 14 Table of Contents A Substantial Portion of Our Revenues is Derived From a Small Number of Customers—The loss or consolidation of, network sharing among, or financial instability of any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 67.2% of our consolidated revenue was derived from Sprint Nextel, Cingular, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile, which represented 14.8%, 23.5%, 20.3% and 8.6%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, on a pro forma basis as if the Global Signal Merger was completed January 1, 2006, approximately 68.3% of our total combined revenues were derived from Sprint Nextel, Cingular, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile, which represented 24.2%, 20.4%, 15.3%, and 8.4% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of bankruptcy, consolidation, merger with other customers of ours or otherwise may materially decrease our revenues and have other adverse effects on our business. We cannot guarantee that the leases (including management service agreements) with our major wireless carriers will not be terminated or that these carriers will renew such agreements. Wireless carriers frequently enter into agreements with their competitors allowing them to utilize one another’s towers to accommodate customers who are out of range of their home providers’ services. In addition, wireless carriers have also entered into agreements allowing two or more carriers to share a single wireless network or jointly develop a tower portfolio in certain locations. Such agreements may be viewed by wireless carriers as a superior alternative to leasing space for their own antennas on our towers. The proliferation of these roaming, network sharing and joint development agreements may have a material adverse effect on us. In the ordinary course of business, we also sometimes experience disputes with customers, generally regarding the interpretation of terms in their respective agreements. Although, historically, we have resolved these disputes on commercially reasonable terms, future disputes could lead to increased tensions and damaged relationships with customers that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are forced to resolve any of these disputes through litigation, our relationship with the applicable customer could be damaged, which could lead to decreased revenues (including as a result of losing a customer) or increased costs, resulting in a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Wireless Carrier Consolidation—Consolidation among customers may result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks which may result in a reduction of sites and have a negative effect on revenues and cash flows. Consolidation among customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of cell sites and impact revenues from our towers. In recent years, certain of our larger carrier customers have merged, including Cingular Wireless (now known as AT&T) with AT&T Wireless in October 2004 and Sprint with Nextel in August 2005. Recent regulatory developments have made consolidation in the wireless industry easier and more likely. For example, in February 2002, the FCC enabled the ownership by a single entity of interests in both cellular carriers in overlapping metropolitan cellular service areas. In January 2003, the FCC eliminated the spectrum aggregation cap in a geographic area in favor of a case-by-case review of spectrum transactions. It is possible that at least some customers may take advantage of this relaxation of spectrum and ownership limitations and consolidate their businesses. Any industry consolidation could decrease the demand for our towers, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues. Substantial Level of Indebtedness—Our substantial level of indebtedness may adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business. We may also be limited in our ability to use debt to fund future capital needs. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As a consequence of our indebtedness, we (1) are subject to restrictive covenants that further limit our financial and operating flexibility and (2) may choose to institute self-imposed limits on our indebtedness based on certain considerations including market interest rates, our relative leverage and our strategic plans. For example, the limits imposed by our indebtedness restrict, under certain circumstances, our and certain of our respective subsidiaries’ ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, guaranteeing indebtedness, issuing preferred stock, engaging in various types of transactions, such as mergers and sales of assets, and paying dividends and making distributions or other restricted payments and investments. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, new tower development, mergers and acquisitions or other opportunities. 15 Table of Contents The following chart sets forth certain important credit information and is presented on a U.S. GAAP basis as of December 31, 2006, Post-Merger, and after giving effect to the $600.0 million term loan entered into in January 2007 (“2007 Term Loan”) and the January 2007 Stock Purchase. (In thousands of dollars) Total indebtedness $ 5,945,534 Redeemable preferred stock 312,871 Stockholders’ equity 3,533,332 Debt and redeemable preferred stock to equity ratio 1.77 As a result of our substantial debt, demands on our cash resources will increase, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market price of our common stock. As a result of our substantial indebtedness: • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • we will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other investments, including capital expenditures; • we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry; and • we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flow from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt or pay our obligations under our preferred stock. In addition, we may need to refinance some or all of our indebtedness and preferred stock on or before maturity. If we are unable to refinance our debt or renegotiate the terms of such debt, we may not be able to meet our debt service requirements in the future. Fluctuations in market interest rates may increase interest expense relating to our floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, Post-Merger, and after giving effect to the 2007 Term Loan, approximately 89.9% of our outstanding indebtedness consists of long-term fixed interest rate notes. In addition, there is no guarantee future refinancing of our indebtedness will have fixed interest rates or that interest rates on such indebtedness will be equal to or lower than the rates on our current indebtedness. Crown Castle International Corp. (“CCIC”) is a holding company with no business operations of its own. We conduct all of our business operations through our subsidiaries. As of January 31, 2007, approximately 1.1% of our consolidated indebtedness, was held at the holding company level (another 10.1% of our consolidated indebtedness is unconditionally guaranteed by the holding company). Accordingly, our only source of cash to pay interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness held at the holding company level is distributions relating to our ownership interest in our subsidiaries from the cash flows and net earnings generated by such subsidiaries or from proceeds of debt, equity offerings, sale of FiberTower or Modeo or certain asset sales. If our subsidiaries are unable to dividend cash to us when we need it, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, including interest and principal payments, under our debt instruments. Economic and Wireless Telecommunications Industry Slowdown—an economic or wireless telecommunications industry slowdown may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for our towers and network services) and the business of our customers. In past years, the U.S. economy, including the wireless telecommunications industry, has experienced significant general slowdowns which negatively affected the factors described in these risk factors, influencing demand for tower space and network services. Similar slowdowns in the U.S. or Australia in the future may reduce consumer demand for wireless services or negatively impact the debt and equity markets, thereby causing carriers to delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies, including 3G and other wireless broadband services. Further, unforeseen events, including the war on terrorism, the threat of additional terrorist attacks, the political and 16 Table of Contents economic uncertainties resulting therefrom may impose additional risks upon and adversely affect the wireless telecommunications industry and us. We believe that the prior economic slowdowns in the U.S., particularly in the wireless telecommunications industry, have harmed, and similar slowdowns in the U.S. or Australia may further harm, the financial condition or operations of wireless carriers, some of which, including customers of ours, have filed for bankruptcy protection. We Operate Our Business In a Competitive Industry and Some of Our Competitors Have Significantly More Resources or Less Debt Than We Do—As a result of this competition, we may find it more difficult to achieve favorable lease rates on our towers. We face competition for site rental customers from various sources, including: • other large independent tower owners; • wireless carriers that own and operate their own towers and lease antenna space to other carriers; • alternative facilities such as rooftops, broadcast towers and utility poles; • new alternative deployment methods; • site development companies that acquire antenna space on existing towers for wireless carriers and manage new tower construction; and • local independent tower operators. Wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower portfolios generally are substantially larger (particularly given the impact of recently completed wireless carrier mergers) and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition for tenants on towers may adversely affect lease rates and revenues. New Technologies May Make Our Tower Leasing Service Less Desirable to Potential Tenants and Result in Decreasing Revenues—Such new technologies may significantly reduce demand for tower leases and negatively impact the growth in our revenues. The development and deployment of signal combining technologies, which permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers, may reduce the need for our antenna space. In addition, other technologies, such as DAS, wireless mesh networks, mobile satellite systems and the delivery of video services by direct broadcast satellites, may, in the future, serve as substitutes for or alternatives to leasing that might otherwise be anticipated or expected on our towers had such technologies not existed. Any reduction in tower leasing demand resulting from multiple frequency antennas, satellite, DAS, mesh networks or other technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. New Technologies May Not Perform as Projected—New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected. There can be no assurances that 3G, wireless data services or other new wireless technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner previously or presently projected by the wireless or broadcast industries. In addition, demand and customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons. As a result, growth opportunities and demand for site rental as a result of such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent previously or presently anticipated. We Generally Lease or Sublease the Land Under Our Towers and May Not Be Able to Extend These Leases—If we fail to protect our rights against persons claiming superior rights to the land on which our towers are located, our business may be adversely affected. Our real property interests relating to the land on which our towers are located consist primarily of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses and rights-of-way. A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding titles and other issues prior to completing an acquisition of towers. Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms. Post- 17 Table of Contents Merger, approximately 9.8% of our towers are on land where our property interests in such land have a final expiration date of less than 10 years. Our inability to protect our rights to the land under our towers may have a material adverse affect on us. Our ability to protect our rights against persons claiming superior rights in towers or real property depends on our ability to: • recover under title insurance policies, the policy limits of which are likely to be less than the purchase price or economic value of a particular tower; • in the absence of title insurance coverage, recover under title warranties given by tower sellers, which often terminate after the expiration of a specific period (typically in three years or less), contain various exceptions and are dependent on the general creditworthiness of the sellers making the title warranties; • obtain estoppels from landlords in connection with the acquisitions, or in some cases the subsequent financing, of towers, which protect the collateral of our lenders and may provide a basis for defending post-closing claims arising from pre-closing events; • recover from landlords under title covenants contained in lease agreements, which are dependent on the general creditworthiness of the landlords making the title covenants; • obtain non-disturbance agreements from mortgagees and superior lienholders of the land under our towers; and • renegotiate and extend the terms of the ground leases, subleases and licenses relating to the land on which our towers are located or purchase the land on which such towers reside. We May Need Additional Financing, Which May Not Be Available, for Strategic Growth Opportunities—If we are unable to raise capital in the future when needed, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities. In the future, we may require significant capital expenditures for strategic growth opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, Post-Merger, and after giving effect to the 2007 Term Loan and the January 2007 Stock Purchase, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of $139.4 million and restricted cash of $137.5 million. In addition, we have $250.0 million of availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility (“2007 Revolver”). We may need additional sources of debt or equity capital in the future to fund future growth opportunities. Additional financing may be unavailable, may be prohibitively expensive, or may be restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. Additional sales of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. If we are unable to raise capital when our needs arise, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities. Modeo’s Business Has Certain Risk Factors Different from our Core Tower Business, Including an Unproven Business Model—Modeo’s business may fail to operate successfully and produce results that are less than anticipated. Modeo is a new company with no operating history and may not be able to operate successfully. Modeo has an unproven business model and operates in the new, largely untested and rapidly evolving mobile media market. Modeo is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise. Modeo has had no revenues since inception. We expect Modeo to experience initial operating losses due to the costs and expenses associated with a start-up operation. No assurance can be made that Modeo will ever generate positive cash flows or that losses recorded from Modeo will not increase in the future. Modeo’s planned business model assumptions include: • wireless carriers and other potential retailers will want to offer Modeo’s service to their customers; • a sufficient number of end users of wireless handsets and other mobile devices will subscribe to Modeo’s service; • an adequate supply of wireless handsets and other mobile devices capable of operating on Modeo’s network will be timely available; and • Modeo will be able to secure video and audio content licenses on favorable terms. If any of the assumptions is incorrect, Modeo’s proposed business will be harmed and may not become commercially available or survive. 18 Table of Contents In addition, Modeo’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives will depend in large part upon the successful, timely and cost-effective completion of a DVB-H network beyond New York City. A variety of factors, uncertainties and contingencies could affect or prevent the successful, timely and cost-effective build out of the planned Modeo network including: • Modeo’s ability to wholesale its service to wireless carriers and other potential retailers; • Modeo’s ability to obtain sufficient base station and broadcast equipment devices compatible with our spectrum license and DVB-H; • unforeseen delays, costs or impediments relating to the granting of state and municipal permits; • Modeo’s ability to manage the build out effectively and cost-efficiently; • delays or disruptions resulting from the failure of third-party suppliers, including equipment manufacturers, or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • unsuccessful operation of, or the receipt of negative results or feedback relating to, our New York City network beta service. We continue to evaluate the potential options for funding the build out of the Modeo network beyond New York City, which include: non-recourse debt secured by our 1670-1675 MHz spectrum license, equity investors in Modeo, joint venture proposals, proposals to sell a controlling interest in Modeo along with a combination of the above. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional third party financing on terms acceptable to us or that Modeo will be able to complete a DVB-H network beyond New York City in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital from third party investors on acceptable terms in a timely manner or if Modeo is otherwise unable to meet its network development targets, then Modeo may not be able to implement its current business plan, and Modeo’s planned mobile media service may not become operationally active or commercially available. Many other companies, some with significantly greater resources than us, currently offer or plan to offer video and audio content to wireless handsets and other mobile devices. Although Modeo’s planned services are not yet commercially available, Modeo competes with these other offerings in bringing its service to commercial availability. If and when Modeo’s planned service becomes commercially available, Modeo will compete with these offerings in capturing potential subscribers and market share. Sprint Nextel, AT&T (formerly Cingular Wireless) and Verizon Wireless currently offer streaming video services over their networks under the brand names Sprint TV, MobiTV and Vcast, respectively. In addition, Qualcomm has announced that it is developing a multicast digital video service, marketed under the brand name MediaFLO. Verizon Wireless and AT&T (formerly Cingular Wireless) have announced that they plan to offer their customers mobile video services over the MediaFLO network. Modeo’s planned service offering may also face competition from other companies offering podcasting and alternate methods of distributing video and audio to mobile devices. As a result of such competition, Modeo may not become viable or gain market share. There can be no assurances that wireless carriers will adopt a wholesale model, such as Modeo’s, to provide video and audio services to their subscribers. Modeo’s failure to operate successfully or accomplish its strategic objectives could negatively impact Modeo’s ability to generate positive cash flow, could require us to dispose of all or part of Modeo’s business and assets, including the FCC spectrum license, or otherwise have an adverse effect on us. FiberTower’s Business Has Certain Risk Factors Different from our Core Tower Business, Including an Unproven Business Model—FiberTower’s business may produce results that are less than anticipated, resulting in a write-off of all or part of our investment in FiberTower. FiberTower commenced its principal operations in 2003 and has a limited operating history. FiberTower has an unproven business model and operates in the new and largely untested market for facilities-based wireless backhaul services. As such, FiberTower is subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business enterprise and may not be able to operate successfully. FiberTower has generated losses since inception. We anticipate that FiberTower will continue to generate losses for the foreseeable future and may need additional funding to support the development of its business model. Although we believe that there will be demand for the backhaul solutions FiberTower provides to wireless carriers as the demand for additional wireless minutes of use 19 Table of Contents increases, no assurances can be made that FiberTower will ever generate positive cash flows or that it will produce the results anticipated at the time of our investment. In addition, as a minority shareholder, we have a limited ability to affect FiberTower’s operations. Additional risk factors relating to FiberTower’s business can be found in FiberTower’s filings with the SEC. Our investment in FiberTower is classified as an available-for-sale security, carried at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. The net unrealized gains or losses on our investment as a result of fluctuations in FiberTower’s share price are reported as accumulated other comprehensive income unless such changes are deemed other than temporary. FiberTower’s failure to operate successfully, gain market share or accomplish its strategic objectives could negatively impact FiberTower’s per share price and could require us to write-off all or a portion of our investment in FiberTower. As of January 31, 2007, the fair value of our investment in FiberTower was $137.8 million (at $5.23 per FiberTower share). As of January 31, 2007, the unrealized investment gain included in accumulated other comprehensive income totaled $2.1 million or equivalent to $0.08 per FiberTower share. Although we currently have no plans to do so, should we choose to liquidate our investment in FiberTower, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to do so at a desirable value. In addition, our investment in FiberTower is subject to certain transfer restrictions that terminate in August 2007 or earlier in some cases. Laws and Regulations, Which May Change at Any Time and With Which We May Fail to Comply, Regulate Our Business—If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business. A variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us. Shares Eligible For Future Sale—Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 20, 2007, we had 282.8 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we have reserved (1) 16.5 million shares of common stock for future issuance under our various stock compensation plans, (2) 1.2 million shares of common stock upon exercise of outstanding warrants, inclusive of 0.6 million shares of common stock as a result of the Global Signal Merger, (3) 5.9 million shares of common stock for the conversion of our 4% Convertible Senior Notes and (4) 8.6 million shares of common stock for the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. A small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. In addition, pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, we have filed with the SEC a registration statement covering certain shares of common stock issued to the Global Signal Significant Stockholders in the Global Signal Merger. The Global Signal Significant Stockholders are subject to certain restrictions on their ability to sell or otherwise dispose of their shares of common stock for a period of up to 180 days after the closing of the Global Signal Merger. If any one of these stockholders, or any group of our stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline. The holders of our 6.25% convertible preferred stock (“6.25% Convertible Preferred Stock”) are entitled to receive cumulative dividends at the rate of 6.25% per annum (approximately $19.9 million per annum) payable on a quarterly basis. We have the option to pay the dividends on such series of preferred stock in cash or in shares of common stock. At various times in the past, we have paid such dividends with shares of common stock, and we may elect to do so again in the future from time to time. The number of shares of common stock required to be issued to pay such dividends is dependent upon the current market value of our common stock at the time such dividend is required to be paid. 20 Table of Contents We Are Heavily Dependent on Our Senior Management—If we lose members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our business may be adversely affected. Our existing operations and continued future development depend to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of certain key individuals as employees, including our chief executive officer. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in retaining the services of these or other key personnel. If we were to lose any of these individuals, we may not be able to find or integrate appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and we may be materially adversely affected. Variability in Demand For Network Services Business Reduces the Predictability of Our Results—Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand. The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results for this activity. Network services revenues declined as a percentage of our total revenues during 2003 and 2004, reflecting our efforts to de-emphasize this area of our business and increased competition, while such revenues increased modestly in 2005 and 2006. In the foreseeable future, network services revenues may decline as a percentage of our total revenues due to our focus on our core leasing business, increased competition or other factors. Emissions From Antennas on Our Towers or Wireless Devices May Create Health Risks—If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our towers are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs and revenues. The FCC and other government agencies impose requirements and other guidelines on their licensees relating to radio frequency emissions. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us. Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs and revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Competition Laws May Have Effects That Conflict with the Interests of Our Stockholders—Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and operative agreements and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to you. We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include: • a staggered Board of Directors; • a shareholder rights agreement; • the authority of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and • advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings. 21 Table of Contents Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of a majority of the Board of Directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. In addition, domestic and international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring towers or tower networks in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Our Operations outside the U.S. Expose Us to Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates—We may suffer losses as a result of changes in such currency exchange rates. After giving effect to the Global Signal Merger, we conduct business in Australia, Canada and United Kingdom, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 9.3% of our consolidated revenues originated outside the U.S., all of which were denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, principally Australian dollars. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our non-U.S. dollar operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates. Approximately 1% of the revenue expected to be realized from the Global Signal business will be denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Available Information and Certifications We maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com/sec.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corpgoverence.asp, and such information is also available in print to any shareholder who requests it. We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on June 16, 2006 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 