Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this report or in other SEC filings by the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Price increases in finished goods, components, raw materials, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm the Company’s results of operations. Increases in the cost of finished goods, components and raw materials and increases in the cost of transportation and other necessary services may harm the Company’s results of operations. Petroleum-based products and aerosol cans, from which WD-40 and 3-IN-ONE are manufactured, have had significant price volatility in the past, and may in the future. Fluctuations in oil prices also have impacted the Company’s cost of transporting its products. As component and raw material costs are the main contribution to cost of goods sold for all of the Company’s products, any significant fluctuation in the costs of components and raw materials could also have a material impact on the gross margins realized on the Company’s products. Specifically, aerosol can prices are exposed to fluctuations resulting from general supply and demand economics; therefore, any significant increase or decrease in the supply and demand of steel could have a significant impact on the costs of purchasing cans and the Company’s cost of goods. In the event there is significant price volatility or raw material and/or component cost increases, the Company may not be able to maintain, or may choose not to maintain, its gross margins by raising its product sales prices. Should the Company choose to increase product sales prices, such increases may adversely affect demand and unit sales. Increases in the prices for raw materials and components could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on a limited base of third-party contract manufacturers and logistics providers may result in disruption to the Company’s business. The Company relies on a limited number of third-party contract manufacturers for the production of its finished goods and third-party logistics providers for the distribution of its products to customers. The Company does not have direct control over the management or business of these third-party contract manufacturers and logistics providers, except indirectly through terms as negotiated in contracts with such third parties. Should the terms of doing business with the Company’s primary contract manufacturers and/or logistics providers change, the Company’s business may be disrupted which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Reliance on a limited base of suppliers of raw materials and components may result in disruption to the Company’s business. The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers, including sole suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components and other necessary supplies. If the Company is unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relations or if it is unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for its business, the Company could experience disruptions in production and its financial results could be adversely affected. The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced profitability. The Company faces intense competition from consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely advertised brands within each product category and with “private label” brands and “generic” non-branded products of grocery chains and wholesale cooperatives in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices. The Company also encounters competition from similar and alternative products, many of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies. 6 Table of Contents The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, quality or other benefits to consumers. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at sales prices at or below those typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions or reduce sales prices and may lead to reduced profit margins or a loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales volume growth may be difficult to achieve. The Company’s ability to achieve sales volume growth will depend on its ability to drive growth through innovation, investment in its established brands, enhanced merchandising, its ability to capture market share from competitors and/or its ability to acquire additional brands. During each of the last several fiscal years, the Company increased sales prices on a majority of its product portfolio in response to increased costs for components and raw materials. Sales price increases may slow sales volume growth or create declines in volume in the short term as customers adjust to sales price increases. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales and demand building initiatives to grow its product categories, develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, or successfully penetrate new and developing markets, the Company may not achieve its sales volume growth objectives. Operations outside the U.S. expose the Company to uncertain conditions and other risks in international markets. The Company’s sales outside of the U.S. were approximately 52% of consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2009 and its strategy includes expanding its international business. The Company faces, and will continue to face, substantial risks associated with having international operations, including: • economic or political instability in its international markets, including Latin America, the Middle East, parts of Asia, Eastern Europe and Russia; • restrictions on or costs relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the U.S., including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations; and • the imposition of tariffs or trade restrictions or other governmental actions. These risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to sell its products on a competitive basis in international markets and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Also, the Company’s operations outside of the U.S. are subject to risks relating to appropriate compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially adverse tax consequences. The Company is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, it is not fully protected against foreign currency fluctuations and, therefore, the Company’s reported earnings may be affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Moreover, any favorable impacts to profit margins or financial results from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates are likely to be unsustainable over time. Dependence on key customers could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. With the trend toward consolidation in the retail marketplace, the Company’s customer base is shifting toward fewer, but larger, customers who purchase in larger volumes. A large percentage of the Company’s sales are to mass retail customers. Sales to one of these customers (Wal-Mart and affiliates) accounted for approximately 10% of the Company’s consolidated net sales in fiscal year 2009. Additionally, each of the Company’s individual brands may be subjected to customer sales concentration. The loss of, or reduction in, orders from any of the Company’s most significant customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s brand values, business, financial condition and results of operations. Large customers also seek price reductions, added support or promotional concessions, which may negatively impact the Company’s ability to maintain existing profit margins. In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. The Company is also subject to changes in customer purchasing patterns. These types of changes may result from changes in the manner in which customers purchase and manage inventory levels, or display and promote products within their stores. Other potential factors such as customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters may also impact operating results. If the Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to impairment risk. The Company assesses the potential impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually during the second fiscal quarter and otherwise when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. The Company’s impairment test is based on a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant management judgment and estimates with respect to, among other considerations, forecasted sales revenue, advertising and promotional expenses, cost of products sold, gross margins, operating margins, the success of product innovations and introductions, customer retention, tax rates, terminal growth values and the selection of appropriate discount and royalty rates. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside the control of management, and it is reasonably likely that assumptions and estimates will change in future periods. These changes could result in future impairments. Events and circumstances that the Company considers important which could trigger impairment include the following: • Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • Significant changes in the Company’s strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets; 8 Table of Contents • Significant negative industry or economic trends; • Significant decline in the Company’s stock price for a sustained period; • Decreased market capitalization relative to net book value; • Unanticipated technological change or competitive activities; • Loss of key distribution; • Change in consumer demand; • Loss of key personnel; and • Acts by governments and courts. When there is indication that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. When there is an indication of impairment of goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Currently, the Company faces challenges related to its homecare and cleaning product brands, which have short differentiated life cycles and often need continuous innovation, renovation and/or continuous marketing support to address consumers’ changing needs and tastes. As a result of the dynamic nature of this product category, the ability to understand consumer preferences and innovate is key to the ongoing success of the homecare and cleaning product brands. In the event that the Company is unable to meet consumer preferences through innovation and/or renovation, its homecare and cleaning product brands and product offerings may be at risk of further impairment. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Based on the results of this test, the Company determined that its goodwill was not impaired since the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value as of February 28, 2009. The Company also determined that each of the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to its homecare and cleaning product brands, with the exception of the indefinite-lived intangible asset related to its Carpet Fresh brand, was not impaired as of February 28, 2009. Due to the declines in profit margin and forecasted sales revenue for the Carpet Fresh brand, both of which occurred during the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company concluded that the Carpet Fresh trade name was impaired by $2.8 million as of February 28, 2009. The decline in forecasted sales revenue for the Carpet Fresh brand resulted from the Company’s strategic decision to divert its research and development resources from its homecare and cleaning products to its multi-purpose maintenance products, the loss of distribution with a significant U.S. mass retail customer and assumed lower future foreign currency exchange rates in the U.K. and Australia. While some of these factors also impacted the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Company’s other homecare and cleaning product brands, they did not result in impairment to any of such other indefinite-lived intangible assets as of February 28, 2009. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company evaluated its indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that indicators of potential impairment existed due to the fact that actual sales revenue for the Carpet Fresh, X-14, Spot Shot and 2000 Flushes brands did not meet the Company’s forecasted sales revenue for the quarter ended May 31, 2009, partially due to adverse economic conditions. As a result, the Company tested these indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment and concluded that no impairment existed as of May 31, 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, the Company reevaluated its indefinite-lived intangible assets and determined that indicators of potential impairment existed related to the Carpet Fresh and X-14 brands due to a 9 Table of Contents further decline in forecasted sales revenue as a result of additional lost distribution in the U.S. and further diversion of research and development resources from the Company’s homecare and cleaning products to its multi-purpose maintenance products. As a result, the Company tested its indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names for impairment and concluded that they were impaired by $3.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2009. As a result, the remaining carrying amounts of the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names were $2.8 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as of August 31, 2009. As a result of lost distribution and the Company’s strategic decision to divert research and development resources from its Carpet Fresh and X-14 brands, forecasted sales revenue for these brands have declined. As a result, the Company concluded that the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names should no longer be considered to have indefinite lives. The Company determined the estimated remaining economic lives of the Carpet Fresh and X-14 trade names based on future forecasted cash flows for these brands. The Company expects that the Carpet Fresh and X-14 brands will generate cash flows for at least the next 13 years and 8 years, respectively, which are the periods over which these trade names will be amortized on a straight-line basis beginning in fiscal year 2010. The Company determined that no indicators of impairment existed related to the Spot Shot and 2000 Flushes brands as of August 31, 2009. However, if significant marketing and other initiatives related to these brands are not successful, they could potentially become impaired. Negative changes in the Company’s assumptions and estimates, such as royalty rates, forecasted sales revenue, advertising and promotional expenses, cost of products sold, gross margins, operating margins, the success of product innovations and introductions, customer retention, development of new and/or alternative distribution channels, tax rates and terminal growth values, could result in impairment of the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to its Spot Shot and 2000 Flushes brands. The Company will continue to closely monitor events and circumstances that could result in impairment of the indefinite-lived intangible assets related to the Spot Shot and 2000 Flushes brands. It is possible that changes in circumstances, existing at that time or at other times in the future, or in the numerous variables associated with the assumptions and estimates made by the Company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its indefinite-lived intangible assets, could in the future require the Company to record further impairment charges. The Company may not successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions. The Company’s future performance and growth depend, in part, on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The Company competes in several product categories where there are frequent introductions of new products and line extensions. The ability to understand consumer preferences and identify technological trends is key to maintaining and improving the competitiveness of its product offerings. The development and introduction of new products, as well as the renovation of current products and product lines, requires substantial and effective research, development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recoup if the new or renovated products do not gain widespread market acceptance. There are inherent risks associated with new product development and marketing efforts, including product development or launch delays, which could result in the Company not being first to market, the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the cost of failed product introductions. As the Company continues to focus on innovation, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in the event that the Company is not able to effectively develop and introduce new or renovated products and line extensions. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s operating results and net earnings may not meet expectations. The Company cannot be sure that its operating results and net earnings will meet expectations. If the Company’s assumptions and estimates are incorrect or do not come to fruition, or if the Company does not achieve all of its key goals, then the Company’s actual performance could vary materially from its expectations. The Company’s operating results and net earnings may be influenced by a number of factors, including the following: • Significant increases in the costs of finished goods, components, raw materials and/or transportation; • The impact of general economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries in which the Company currently does business; • Consumer and customer reaction to sales price increases; • Changes in product sales pricing by the Company or its competitors; • The introduction of new products and line extensions by the Company or its competitors; • The mix of products with varying profitability sold in a given period; • The mix of products sold within different channels and countries with varying profitability in a given period; • The Company’s ability to control internal costs; • The effectiveness of the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs; • The availability and cost of debt financing; • The ability of the Company to execute its strategies and to maintain and enhance profits in the face of a consolidating retail environment; • The ability of the Company to achieve its business plans, including sales volume growth and sales pricing plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity; • The ability of the Company to maintain key customer relationships; • The ability of the Company to generate expected cost savings and efficiencies; • The ability of the Company to maintain the value of its brands; • The ability of major customers and other debtors to meet their obligations as they come due; • The failure of parties contracting with the Company to perform their obligations and the loss of or inability to renew contracts of importance to the Company’s performance; • The Company’s reliance on brokers for the grocery channel; • The ability to successfully manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including resolution of pending matters within current estimates; • Substantial costs associated with regulatory compliance; 11 Table of Contents • The ability of the Company to attract and retain qualified personnel; • Expenses for impairment of goodwill, trade names and other intangible assets and equity investments in excess of projections; • Expenses for impairment and obsolescence of property, plant and equipment in excess of projections; • The ability to maintain the overall quality of new and existing products; • The ability of the Company to penetrate and grow domestic and international markets and distribution channels; • The ability of the Company to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • The impact of foreign import and export restrictions or other trade regulations; • Changes to cash flow resulting from the Company’s operating results, tax payments, tax settlements, debt repayments and share repurchases; • The ability of the Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions regarding obsolescence; • Changes in accounting policies and accounting standards; • The impact of any litigation or product liability claims; and • Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes. In addition, sales volume growth, whether due to acquisitions or internal growth, can place burdens on management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative impact on operating results. To some extent, the Company plans its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenues fall short of these expectations, operating results and net earnings are likely to be adversely affected. The recent changes in general economic conditions, and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, may negatively impact the Company’s future results of operations. The Company’s performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. Recently, consumer confidence and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly and could remain depressed for an extended period. Some of the factors influencing this deterioration include fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the Company’s multi-purpose maintenance products and homecare and cleaning products, generally decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and this may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Government regulations could impose material costs. The Company is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on its business operations, including, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes and the investigation and 12 Table of Contents remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations may otherwise relate to various health and safety matters that impose burdens upon the Company’s operations. These laws and regulations govern actions that may have adverse environmental effects and also require compliance with certain practices when handling and disposing of hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations also impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up current sites, past spills, disposals and other releases of hazardous substances. The Company believes that its expenditures related to environmental matters have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the environmental laws under which the Company operates are complicated and often increasingly more stringent, and may be applied retroactively. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of the Company’s products have chemical compositions that are controlled by various state, federal and international laws and regulations. The Company is required to comply with these laws and regulations and seeks to anticipate regulatory developments that could impact the Company’s ability to continue to produce and market its products. The Company invests in research and development to maintain product formulations that comply with such laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to alter the chemical composition of one or more of the Company’s products in a way that will have an adverse effect upon the product’s efficacy or marketability. A delay or other inability of the Company to complete product research and development in response to any such regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A focus on environmental regulations relating to Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) resulted in a change in 1996 in the formulation of the WD-40 product in the majority of countries where the product is sold, whereby CO 2 was chosen as the aerosol propellant. This change increased the cost of manufacturing WD-40, and the Company increased its selling prices to partially offset the additional cost. In the event of future increases in product cost, the Company may not be in a position to raise selling prices, and therefore an increase in costs could have an adverse effect on the Company’s profitability. In California, VOCs are regulated by the California Air Resources Board (CARB), one of the most influential state environmental regulatory agencies in the United States. In the past, CARB regulations have required a reformulation of some of the Company’s multi-purpose lubricants. The Company successfully reformulated some of its multi-purpose lubricants to be in full compliance with CARB regulations. The reformulation resulted in increased product costs. On June 26, 2008, CARB voted to approve proposed regulatory amendments to establish lower limits for VOCs in certain regulated consumer products, including multi-purpose lubricants, carpet cleaners and stain removers. The amendments to the California Regulation for Reducing VOC Emissions from Consumer Products (the “Consumer Products Regulation”) will require reductions in the levels of VOCs in each product category by dates specified in the amendments. For multi-purpose lubricants, the amendments will require a reduction in VOC levels from the current standard of 50% by weight to 25% by December 31, 2013 and to 10% by December 31, 2015. If the Consumer Products Regulation is implemented as proposed, the Company will be required to reformulate certain of its products, specifically including the WD-40 brand products, in order to comply with these lower limits on VOC content. There can be no assurance that reformulation of the Company’s products can be accomplished at a commercially reasonable cost or without having an adverse impact on product performance. The inability of the Company to successfully reformulate its products to comply with the Consumer Products Regulation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents CARB continually reviews its allowable levels of VOCs in products and product categories in which the Company’s products compete. In the event that CARB regulations require further reformulations of any of the Company’s products, the impact of reformulation could have an adverse effect on product performance and the Company’s profitability. In conjunction with the review of the state budget, California authorized CARB to enforce a fee-based system, which would allow it to collect “fees” from those it governs on the VOC issues. These fees go into CARB’s operating budget and help cover shortfalls, and are based on the amount of VOCs a company’s product puts into the state’s atmosphere. If a similar VOC policy is adopted by other states, the potential impact of fees charged could be material to the Company. Generally, the manufacturing, packaging, storage, distribution and labeling of the Company’s products and the Company’s business operations all must comply with extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. It is possible that the government will increase regulation of the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals, to enhance homeland security or protect the environment and that such regulation could negatively impact raw material, component and/or finished goods supplies or costs. Resolutions of tax disputes may impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating tax positions. Effective September 1, 2007, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an Interpretation of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The Company provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by FIN 48. Changes in uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, impact the Company’s effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax matter may require the adjustment of tax assets or tax liabilities or the use of cash in the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the information set forth in Note 11 – Income Taxes of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this report. Business development activities may not be successful. The Company may seek to increase growth through business development activities such as acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic partnerships. However, if the Company is not able to successfully integrate acquired products or manage joint ventures or other strategic partnerships, the Company may not be able to maximize these opportunities. Rather, the failure to properly manage business development activities because of difficulties in the assimilation of operations and products, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, the loss of key employees or other factors could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the Company’s strategies is to increase its sales volumes, earnings and the markets it serves through acquisitions of, joint ventures with or other strategic partnerships with other businesses in the United States and internationally. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify, acquire, or profitably manage additional companies or operations or that it will be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions into its operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that business development activities will be profitable at their inception or that they will achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic partnerships could also result in the incurrence of debt, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and/or increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and 14 Table of Contents financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s business development activities diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with such activities, which could also adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not have sufficient cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends. The Company has historically paid out a large part of its earnings to stockholders in the form of regular quarterly cash dividends. The past acquisitions have been funded to a large extent by debt. In order to service the debt, the Company is required to use its income from operations to make interest and principal payments required by the terms of the loan agreements. In addition, the Company is required by covenants within the loan agreements to maintain certain financial ratios and compliance with other financial terms. In December 2006, the Company increased its regular quarterly cash dividend from $0.22 to $0.25 per share. However, if operating income is not sufficient to properly service the debt or otherwise allow the Company to maintain compliance with the terms of its loans, the Company could be required to seek additional financing by incurring additional debt or through the sale of equity securities, or the Company might be required to reduce dividends. The Company may also incur substantial additional debt in the future for other reasons, including acquisitions or other business development activities. To the extent that the Company is required to seek additional financing by incurring more debt or selling equity securities, such financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the Company’s related risks could intensify. Failure to maximize or to successfully assert the Company’s intellectual property rights could impact its competitiveness. The Company relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be maximized or that they can be successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights or, where appropriate, license intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to defend its intellectual property rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other companies infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of the Company’s brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value the consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The failure of the Company to perfect or successfully assert its intellectual property rights or to protect its other proprietary information could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, its competitiveness could be negatively impacted. If the Company is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the need to cease the use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented invention in the Company’s business and the obligation to pay a substantial amount for past infringement. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial amount in the future if the rights holders are willing to permit the Company to continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Volatility in the insurance market could result in additional risk to the Company. The Company reevaluates its insurance coverage annually. From time to time, insurance contracts may be much more expensive, less protective or even unavailable. In such a case, the Company may decide to decrease its levels of insurance coverage, thereby undertaking additional risk. Product liability claims and other litigation could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results. While the Company exerts every effort to ensure that the products it develops and markets are safe for consumers, the use of the Company’s products may expose the Company to liability claims resulting from such use. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In addition, if one of the Company’s products were to be found to be defective, the Company could be required to recall the product, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. The Company maintains product liability insurance that it believes will be adequate to protect the Company from material loss attributable to such claims but the extent of such loss could exceed available limits of insurance or could arise out of circumstances under which such insurance coverage would be unavailable. Other business activities of the Company may also expose the Company to litigation risks, including risks that may not be covered by insurance. If successful claims are asserted by third parties against the Company for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of applicable insured limits of coverage, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, the Company’s products may be associated with competitor products or other products in the same category, which may be alleged to have caused harm to consumers. As a result of this association, the Company may be named in unwarranted legal actions. The potential costs of defense may materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Changes in marketing distributor relationships that are not managed successfully could result in a disruption in one or more of the affected markets. The Company distributes its products throughout the world in one of two ways: the Direct Distribution model, in which products are sold directly by the Company to wholesalers and retailers in the U.S., Canada, Australia, China, the U.K. and a number of other countries throughout Europe; and the Marketing Distributor model, in which products are sold to exclusive marketing distributors who in turn sell to wholesalers and retailers. The Marketing Distributor model is generally used in certain countries where the Company does not have direct company-owned operations. Instead, the Company partners with local companies who perform the sales, marketing and distribution functions. The Company invests time and resources in these relationships. Should key personnel change and/or the relationship change or terminate, the Company could be at risk until such time as a suitable replacement can be found and the Company’s key marketing strategies implemented. There is a risk that changes in such marketing distributor relationships that are not managed successfully could result in a disruption in one or more of the affected markets and that such disruption could have an adverse material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in some countries, local laws may require substantial payments to terminate existing relationships, which could also have an adverse material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The operations of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s control. Operations of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquakes, hurricanes, flooding or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, temporary loss of 16 Table of Contents access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to customers, supply chain disruptions, increased costs for finished goods, components and/or raw materials or suspension of operations, any of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to meet or exceed market expectations could adversely affect the Company’s stock price. The market price of the Company’s stock is based, in part, on market expectations for the Company’s financial performance, including sales growth, earnings per share and cash flows. Failure to meet or exceed these expectations could cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline. The Company’s continued growth and expansion and increased reliance on third-party service providers could adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting which could harm its business and financial results. Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records in reasonable detail that accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions, providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are made in accordance with management’s authorization and providing reasonable assurance that the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement in the Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in global markets will place additional significant pressure on the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, the Company increasingly engages the services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial reporting processes, which inserts additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 