ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements," as discussed in Item 7. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have substantial debt and may incur additional debt, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2007, we had an aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding of approximately $4.13 billion. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to holders of our debt and others. Because of our substantial debt: •our ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing could become impaired; •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt may be impaired in the future; •a large portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; •we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including under the Interim Loan Facility, the Term Facilities and the Revolving Credit Facility (each as defined in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report and, collectively, the "Credit Facilities"), and certain floating rate operating leases are at variable rates of interest; •it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such debt; •we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our Competitors with less debt or with comparable debt on more favorable terms and that, as a result, they may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; •our ability to refinance debt may be limited or the associated costs may increase; and •our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our businesses. 10 Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial debt. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future. The terms of our debt do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. The Credit Facilities provide us with commitments for additional borrowings of up to $500 million under the Revolving Credit Facility and permit additional borrowings beyond those commitments under certain circumstances. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risk we face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing our debt contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional debt (including guarantees of additional debt); •prepay other debt or amend other debt instruments; •pay dividends and make certain payments; •create liens on assets; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; •permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to entities other than ServiceMaster; •change our business; and •engage in acquisition activity and make investments (including joint ventures). The restrictions in the agreements governing our debt may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, at maturity or otherwise, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our debt may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under an agreement that would permit the applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Term Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under the Credit Facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the Credit Facilities. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. 11 Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our debt or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. As a holding company, we have no independent operations or material assets other than our ownership of equity interests in our subsidiaries, and we will depend on our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses, including satisfying our obligations under our debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions and dividends to us, which, in turn, will depend on their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, general business conditions, and any legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends to which they may be subject, many of which may be beyond our control, and as described below. The payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our subsidiaries that are regulated as insurance, home warranty, service contract or similar companies is subject to applicable state law limitations. If we cannot receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our obligations to fund general corporate expenses or service our debt obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature in 2013 and the Term Loan Facilities will mature in 2014. The interim loans under the Senior Interim Credit Facility mature on July 24, 2008, and permanent financing issued under the Senior Interim Credit Facility, if any, would mature on July 24, 2015. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our anticipated high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the agreements governing our debt, as well as prevailing market conditions. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The agreements governing our indebtedness restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, what the timing of the sales will be, whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due or whether we would receive fair value for such assets. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including under the Credit Facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates, whether because of an increase in market interest rates or a decrease in our creditworthiness, would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $16 million change in the annual interest expense on our Term Loan Facilities after considering the benefit of the interest rate swaps into which we have entered. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $5 million change in annual interest expense on our Revolving Credit Facility. In addition during 2008, the Interim Loan Facility provides for floating rates and automatic step ups in rates up to a maximum cash rate of 10.75%. The maximum cash rate would provide for an increase in interest expense compared to current rates of approximately $23 million on an annual basis. We are also exposed to increases in interest rates in respect of our floating rate 12 operating leases, and a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $3 million change in annual rent expense in respect of such operating leases. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt and floating rate operating leases. Weather conditions and seasonality affect the demand for our services and our results of operations. The demand for our services and our results of operations are affected by weather conditions and by the seasonal nature of our lawn care and landscape maintenance services, termite and pest control services, home warranty and home inspection services, and disaster restoration services. For example, in our markets that do not have a year-round growing season, the demand for our lawn care and landscape maintenance services decreases during the winter months. Droughts and late spring or fall snow storms can adversely impact the demand for lawn care and landscape maintenance services; above normal temperatures can result in increased service calls in the home warranty business; and cooler temperatures can impede the development of the termite swarm and lead to lower demand for our termite services. For instance, in the first quarter of 2007, results in our TruGreen LawnCare segment were adversely impacted by late first quarter snowfalls in the Midwest and Northeast, revenue from termite completions declined in our Terminix segment as termite swarm activity was negatively impacted by cooler than normal weather conditions, and InStar was negatively impacted by a substantially lower volume of hurricane-related work. Our markets are highly competitive. Competition could reduce our market share and adversely impact our results of operations. We operate in highly competitive markets. Changes in the source and intensity of competition in the markets served by us impact the demand for our services and may result in additional pricing pressures. The relatively low capital cost of entry to certain of our businesses has led to strong competitive markets, including regional and local owner-operated companies. Regional and local competitors operating in a limited geographic area may have lower labor, benefits and overhead costs. The principal methods of competition in our businesses include name recognition, quality and speed of service, pricing, customer satisfaction and reputation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and that the competitive pressures that we face will not result in reduced market share or negatively impact our financial performance. Increases in fuel prices and other operating costs adversely affect our results of operations. Our financial performance is affected by the level of our operating expenses, such as fuel, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures. In particular, our financial performance is adversely affected by increases in these operating costs. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely and have generally increased, including sharp increases in 2006 and 2007. These fuel price increases raise our costs of operating vehicles and equipment. Fuel price increases can also result in increases in the cost of fertilizer, chemicals and other materials used in our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in fuel costs and other operating costs. In 2007, our cost of services rendered and products sold increased in part due to increased health benefit and fuel costs throughout the Company. To the extent such cost increases continue, we may not be able to fully pass these increased costs through to our existing and prospective customers, and the rates we pay to our subcontractors may increase, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. With respect to fuel, our fleet, which consumes roughly 30 million gallons 13 annually, has been negatively impacted by significant increases in fuel prices. Each year, we hedge approximately two-thirds of our estimated annual fuel usage. Fuel costs, even after the benefits of related hedges, increased approximately $8 million pretax in 2007. Based upon the hedges we have executed for 2008, as well as current Department of Energy price forecasts, we would again expect an additional adverse impact in 2008. A shortage in supply of fuel would also adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain trained workers and third party contractors. Our future success and financial performance depends substantially on our ability to attract, retain and train workers and attract and retain third party contractors. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force including on a seasonal basis, which may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including a failure of the U.S. Congress to reauthorize the returning worker exception to the H2B Visa Program, which may negatively impact the number of foreign nationals available to engage in seasonal employment. In the event of a labor shortage, we could experience difficulty in delivering our services in a high-quality or timely manner and could be forced to increase wages in order to attract and retain employees, which would result in higher operating costs and reduced profitability. We may not successfully implement our business strategies or realize all of our expected cost savings. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the time frames anticipated, the anticipated benefits of our various initiatives, such as our Terminix Termite Inspection and Protection Plan and TruGreen TruNatural Targeted Lawn Care program and our agreement with Realogy Corporation, or our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements, including those related to the Company's reorganization and restructuring of certain of its businesses and support functions ("Fast Forward"). Our various business strategies and initiatives, including our productivity and customer retention initiatives, are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. We expect to incur certain costs to achieve our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements. These costs may turn out to be substantially higher than we currently estimate, and we may not fully achieve our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements. Our ability to successfully realize cost savings and the timing of any realization may be affected by factors such as the need to ensure continuity in our operations, contracts, regulations and/or statutes governing employee-employer relationships, our ability to renegotiate contracts or find alternative suppliers and other factors. Our business strategy may also change from time to time. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our expected results of operations. Changes in general economic conditions, especially as they may affect home re-sales or consumer confidence or spending levels, may adversely affect the demand for our services. Changes in general economic conditions and consumer confidence affect the demand for our services. Unfavorable general economic conditions such as those experienced in recent months, including rising fuel prices, changes in interest rates, continued or further softening of the home resale market, increases in home foreclosures and increases in unemployment rates, could reduce consumer confidence and related spending levels and, in turn, reduce the demand for our services. These factors could also negatively impact the timing or the ultimate collection of accounts receivable, which would negatively impact our operating revenues, profitability and cash flow. 14 Public perceptions that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe may adversely affect the demand for our services. In providing our services, we use, among other things, fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. Public perception that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe, whether justified or not, could lead to reduced demand for our services, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the types or mix of our service offerings could affect our financial performance. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the types or mix of services we offer our customers. For example, when Terminix transitioned from offering primarily bait termite services to providing both liquid and bait termite services, this transition required the purchase of additional equipment and additional training for our associates. The bait and termite service lines also have different price points (for both the initial treatment and for renewals), different ongoing service obligations, and different revenue recognition policies. These changes in mix can also affect the timing of our revenues, as, for example, when the switch to a new bait product in early 2005 allowed us to recognize revenue from the use of bait termite applications more quickly and thereby reduced deferrals of revenue relating to such applications to future periods. An unsuccessful rollout or adjustment of our service offerings could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Government laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could increase our legal and regulatory expenses and affect our financial performance. Our businesses are subject to significant federal, state and local laws and regulations. These federal and state laws include laws relating to consumer protection, wage and hour requirements, the employment of immigrants, permit and licensing requirements, workers' safety, the environment, insurance and home warranty, employee benefits, telemarketing, the application of fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides and other chemicals, noise and air pollution from power equipment and local regulations, including water management techniques. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses. The laws and regulations applicable to our businesses will likely change in the future and affect our operations and financial performance. In addition, if we were to fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in litigation and suffer the loss of licenses or penalties that may affect how our business is operated, which, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of management personnel and other employees as a result of restructuring could adversely affect our financial performance. Among the purposes of Fast Forward is to eliminate layers and bureaucracy and simplify work processes in order to better align the Company's work processes around its operational and strategic objectives. Fast Forward has resulted in employee workforce reductions as part of the cost-savings to be achieved and may include additional workforce reductions in the future. Ultimately, Fast Forward is expected to enhance our financial performance; however, the loss of management personnel and other employees could affect our success and financial performance until the Fast Forward process is completed. 15 Our business process outsourcing initiatives may increase our reliance on third-party contractors and expose our business to harm upon the termination or disruption of our third-party contractor relationships. Our strategy to increase profitability by reducing our costs of operations includes the implementation of business process outsourcing initiatives. As a result, our future operations may increasingly rely on third-party vendors to provide services that we currently perform internally. Any disruption, termination, or substandard provision of these outsourced services could adversely affect our brands, customer relationships, operating results and financial condition. Also, if a third-party outsourcing provider relationship is terminated, there is a risk that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable. In addition, in the event a third-party outsourcing relationship is terminated and we are unable to replace it, there is a risk that we may no longer have the capabilities to perform these services internally. Compliance with our subsidiary's environmental plan and the costs and effects of legal or administrative proceedings could adversely impact our business and financial results. On November 8, 2006, InStar entered into a plea agreement with the United States' Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida requiring that InStar implement an environmental compliance plan, pay a fine of $0.5 million for each count, for a total of $1 million, and make a contribution of $2 million to the Florida Environmental Task Force Trust Fund, in each case relating to conduct that occurred prior to our acquisition of InStar. In addition, InStar entered into a compliance agreement with the EPA. The plea agreement entered into between InStar and the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida and the EPA compliance agreement will require ongoing monitoring and compliance by InStar for up to five years, violation of which could potentially result in further fines, loss of licenses, loss of certain federal grants and procurement contracts, and possible criminal sanctions. As part of InStar's plea agreement with the United States Attorney's Office and the EPA compliance agreement, InStar has agreed to implement a comprehensive environmental compliance plan. The environmental compliance plan requires, among other things, mandatory training for all InStar employees on the proper identification, handling and management of hazardous substances, internal monitoring and audits of the compliance plan, and third-party auditing and reporting of compliance with the plan. If the compliance plan is not fulfilled and the plea agreement is violated, potential risks to us include additional and substantial fines, expanded investigation and prosecution by the United States Attorney's Office, loss of certain key contractor licenses currently held by InStar, loss of federal grants and procurement contracts for InStar, negative media exposure and damage to our reputation that could result in loss of business for InStar and other of our business units, and possible criminal sanctions. Laws and regulations regarding the use of pesticides and fertilizers and claims of personal injury and property damage involving product liability, as well as other environmental laws and regulations, could result in significant costs that adversely affect our operating results. Local, state, federal and international laws and regulations relating to environmental matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, all products containing pesticides must be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (and similar state agencies) before they can be sold. The failure to obtain or the cancellation of any such registration, or the other withdrawal from the market place of such pesticides, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether other products could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. The pesticides we use are manufactured by independent third parties and are evaluated by the EPA as part of its ongoing exposure risk assessment. The EPA may decide that a pesticide we use will be limited or will not be 16 re-registered for use in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA's continuing evaluations. In addition, the use of certain pesticides, herbicides and fertilizer products is regulated by various local, state, federal and international environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may require that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, may require users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, may require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or may ban the use of certain products. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations, we cannot assure you that our products, particularly pesticide products, will not be alleged to cause injury to the environment or to people under any circumstances. The costs of compliance, remediation or products liability lawsuits could materially affect our future operating results. Local, state, federal and foreign agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, air and water discharges from our facilities and the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. If there is a significant change in the facts and circumstances surrounding the assumptions upon which we operate or if we are found not to be in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, it could have a material impact on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, Terminix, TruGreen, TruGreen LawnCare, TruGreen LandCare, Merry Maids, ServiceMaster Clean, American Home Shield, AmeriSpec, InStar, Furniture Medic and ServiceMaster. We have not sought to register every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain services under our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Disruptions or security failures in our information technology systems could create liability for us and/or limit our ability to effectively monitor, operate and control our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor, operate and control our operations. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, any disruption in these plans or the 17 failure of these plans to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting, among other things, our capacity to monitor, operate and control our operations effectively. In addition, because our systems contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to maintain the security of the data we hold, whether the result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities relating to violations of privacy or otherwise, which may lead to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. We are subject to various restrictive covenants that could adversely impact our operations. From time to time, we enter into noncompetition agreements that restrict us from entering into lines of business (i.e., heating, ventilation and air conditioning repair and installation, electrical repair and installation, plumbing) or operating in certain areas into which we may desire to expand our business. We also are subject to non-solicitation and no hire covenants that may restrict our ability to solicit potential customers or employees. To the extent that such restrictive covenants prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities, our operations may be adversely impacted. Future acquisitions and our reorganization efforts could affect our financial performance. We plan to continue to pursue opportunities to expand through selective acquisitions. Our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable prices and to integrate acquired businesses are important factors in our future growth. We cannot assure that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired businesses successfully. Any inability on our part to consolidate and manage growth from acquired businesses could have an adverse effect on our financial performance, and there can be no assurance that any acquisition that we make in the future will provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition. The process of integrating an acquired business and/or reorganizing our management and merit processes may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses, including the diversion of resources needed to integrate new businesses, technologies, products, personnel or systems; the inability to retain employees, customers and suppliers; the assumption of actual or contingent liabilities; failure to follow internal processes; write-offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets; and unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to acquired businesses. We are indirectly owned and controlled by the Equity Sponsors, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with holders of our debt. We are indirectly owned and controlled by the Equity Sponsors, who will have the ability to control our policies and operations. The directors appointed by affiliates of the Equity Sponsors are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue or repurchase capital stock, pay dividends and incur additional debt. The interests of the Equity Sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of the holders of our debt. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our Equity Sponsors might conflict with the interests of holders of our debt. In addition, our Equity Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transaction might involve risks to holders of our debt. Furthermore, the Equity Sponsors may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. One or more of the Equity Sponsors also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 18 