D. Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements in this annual report, including statements regarding the Company's business which are not historical facts, are made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and pursuant to National Instrument 51-102 and other rules, regulations and policies of Canadian securities regulatory authorities. Forward-looking statements include statements of estimates, expectations, objectives and plans (financial and otherwise). The words "anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Numerous factors affect the Company's operating results and could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the results indicated by this annual report or by any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company, and there can be no assurance that future results will meet expectations, estimates or projections. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: variability of quarterly operating results; dependence upon the continued growth and success of the Company's software products; competition; the ability to develop, market, support and acquire new products in an environment of rapidly changing technology; dependence upon continued growth in the database and enterprise data integration markets; dependence upon relationships with complementary vendors and distribution channels; pursuing, completing and integrating acquisitions could divert resources and may not achieve the intended business objectives; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; risks of international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic conditions; possible software errors or defects; possible infringement claims by third parties; and other factors discussed herein, in the Company's Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations and other periodic filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, the Ontario Securities Commission, other Canadian securities commissions, and other regulatory authorities. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. The Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements. An investment in the Company's Common Shares involves certain risks and uncertainties which should be carefully considered. The following risk factors, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, and on the value or market price of the Company's Common Shares, should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this annual report (including information incorporated by reference herein). 6 LIMITED POSITIVE OPERATING HISTORY; UNCERTAINTY OF FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS. The Company's predecessor was incorporated on November 19, 1993 and did not earn revenue until 1995. While the Company earned operating income for the years ended January 31, 2001, 2003, and 2004, it incurred an operating loss for the years ended January 31, 2002 and 2005. In addition, while the Company earned net income for the years ended January 31, 2001, 2004, and 2005, it recorded net losses for the years ended January 31, 2002 and 2003. Due to the Company's limited positive operating history, the uncertainty of continued acceptance of the Company's products, the rapid evolution of competitive software products, and the other risk factors discussed herein, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to sustain revenue growth or to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow from operations in the future. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects". VARIABILITY OF QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS. The Company's revenue and results of operations have fluctuated significantly on a quarterly basis and the Company expects substantial variability of future quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors. These factors include: (i) the timing of the release of new software products and enhanced versions of existing products by the Company; (ii) the introduction of new products and product enhancements by the Company's competitors; (iii) market acceptance of and demand for the Company's products; (iv) the strength or weakness of global markets for the Company's products and for computer platforms and databases with which the Company's products operate, in particular the IBM iSeries (formerly the AS/400) platform; (v) changes in operating expenses, including possible increases related to the introduction of new and enhanced products; (vi) the timing or receipt of orders from major customers; (vii) general economic factors, including the potential negative effect of actual or perceived weakening of global economic conditions on the level of spending by the Company's customers and prospective customers; (viii) concentration of revenues in the last month of each quarter and in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year; (ix) the proportion of revenues attributable to licence fees versus service revenues; (x) changes in pricing policies by the Company or its competitors; and (xi) the proportion of licence revenue closed in the final week and day of each quarter. Accordingly, the Company believes that period to period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and historical results should not be relied upon as indicative of future performance. The Company's operating expenses are based in part on anticipated short term revenue levels and are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if revenues are not realized as expected, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected. Variability of future quarterly operating results may cause volatility in the market price of the Common Shares. In addition, due to some or all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that in some future quarter the Company's operating results will be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of the Company's Common Shares would likely be materially adversely affected. See "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects". PRODUCT MARKETS AND PRODUCT ACCEPTANCE. To date, the Company has derived a large portion of its licence revenue from its Transformation Server and iCluster (a successor to High Availability Suite) products, particularly for the IBM iSeries (AS/400) platform. The Company expects that sales of Transformation Server software, and particularly Transformation Server for the iSeries, as well as iCluster, will continue to represent a substantial portion of its revenue for the foreseeable future. With the Company's Constellar Hub and iReflect products, the Company believes it will see increased revenues from products that operate in conjunction with Oracle databases. A decline in the market for hardware platforms on which the Company's products operate, or for applications and data management software for such platforms, may occur as a result of new competitive products, price, technological changes or other factors. The Company's future results of operations will depend, in part, on achieving broader market acceptance of its software products, as well as on its ability to continue to enhance these products to meet the evolving needs of customers. Future results may also depend on the strength or weakness of global markets for computer platforms and databases with which the Company's products operate. A decline in these markets, or the inability of the Company to achieve broader acceptance of its products or to enhance its products as required to meet market demand, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company's PointBase products depend on the acceptance and use of Java and the promotion and backing of Java by Sun Microsystems, Inc. Any adverse change on the viability or support for Java or Sun would have an adverse effect on the market for PointBase products. See "Business Overview - Competition". PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, ACQUISITION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE. The market for integration software is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The Company must continue to develop, create or acquire new products and update existing products to reflect technological changes and market developments in hardware platforms, operating systems and database technology platforms in order to compete effectively. Such product development or acquisition may require the Company to invest substantial amounts in research and development on an ongoing basis. Although the Company may seek to acquire businesses or technologies from time to time, there can be no assurance that any such acquisition will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that the Company will be able to successfully consummate or integrate any such potential acquisition. The development cycle for new products may be significantly longer than development cycles experienced by the Company for its prior products and upgrades. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render the Company's existing products, and products currently under development, obsolete and unmarketable. Hardware, operating system, and database vendors continually add integration and data protection features to their products which may negatively impact the market for the Company's products. The Company's sales of PointBase may be affected by IBM's recent 2004 announcement of its release of Cloudscape, a relational Java database as open source software to the Apache Software Foundation. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments, respond to customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. In addition to decreasing revenues as products reach the end of their natural life cycles, if the Company were unable to develop upgrades or new products in a timely manner due to resource constraints or technological or other reasons, the Company could experience decreases in future sales and revenues. There can be no assurance that the Company's future products or enhancements will keep pace with technological change or satisfy market needs or that the Company will successfully develop, acquire or market any future products. 7 COMPETITION. The market for integration software is continuously evolving and highly competitive. Given the variety of uses for the Company's products and the range of platforms, operating systems and databases on which they operate, the Company faces competition from many competitors, including other independent software vendors, database vendors and large hardware manufacturers who also offer data integration tools. In the financial year ended January 31, 2005, the Company faced increased pricing pressures from competitors including Vision and iTera in the iSeries High Availability marketplace. These competitors have continued to put pricing pressure on the Company's core High Availability suite of products which continue to depress margins for these products. The Company also faces significant competition from in-house development departments within businesses that may develop custom software for the specific data movement or integration requirements of their enterprises. Current and potential competitors may have or may in the future establish alliances or cooperative relationships among themselves or with potential customers and may rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, many of the Company's competitors and potential competitors are or may be significantly larger than the Company and have significantly longer operating histories, greater financial resources and more market and brand recognition than the Company. The Company believes that its ability to compete depends on many factors within and outside its control, including product functionality, performance, price, reliability, vendor and product reputation, customer service and support, sales and marketing efforts, product distribution and product releases both by the Company and its competitors. As the markets for the Company's products expand, additional competition may emerge and competitors may commit more resources to competitive products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in current or future markets or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. See "Business Overview - Competition". DEPENDENCE ON CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE DATABASE AND DATA INTEGRATION MARKETS. The Company believes key future uses of its software will be for integration and data and application data protection (high systems availability) applications, such as e-commerce applications, data distribution to and from data warehouses and other data stores, enterprise application integration, workload balancing, and back-up protection against planned and unplanned system outages. Consequently, the Company's future financial performance will depend in part on the growth in the utilization of databases and in the number of data warehouse installations. The database and data warehouse markets are rapidly evolving, and there can be no assurance that such markets will be sustained at their current size or continue to grow. In addition, to the extent that the Company's products may be used in electronic commerce and Internet-based applications, the Company's future financial performance will depend in part on the reliability, growth in use and public acceptance of the Internet, particularly for the conduct of business-to-business and business-to-consumer commercial transactions. Businesses continue to develop their commercial infrastructure using Internet technologies. There can be no assurance that the Internet infrastructure will be able to support the communications demands placed on it. In addition, there is no assurance that the Company's products will adequately address the requirements of customers or keep pace with changes in any of these markets. DEPENDENCE ON RELATIONSHIPS WITH COMPLEMENTARY VENDORS. The Company believes that it is important to develop, maintain, and enhance close associations with complementary hardware and software vendors. In particular, it is important that the Company maintain its existing relationship with IBM due to the Company's dependence on the IBM iSeries market. In the High Availability market, the Company depends on IBM rebates and incentives offered to IBM customers who purchase software from IBM High Availability Business Partners to encourage customers to purchase the Company's software. There can be no assurance that IBM will not terminate the Company's status as a High Availability Business Partner. This would have a direct negative impact on sales of the Company's High Availability software. The Company also depends on IBM to market and promote the Company and its products to IBM sales employees, IBM business and channel partners and end user customers. There can be no assurance that IBM will continue to market and promote the Company and its products, that IBM will not enter the market for High Availability or integration software directly, or that the Company will be able to maintain its existing relationships or enter into new relationships. The Company's failure to do so could adversely affect the portability of the Company's products to, and compatibility and integration with, existing and new platforms, software applications and databases and the timing of the introduction of new and enhanced products by the Company. In addition, failure to do so could affect the Company's ability to leverage third party distribution channels and increase its market presence. See "Business Overview - - Sales and Marketing". IBM has plans to add heterogeneous replication functionality to its WebSphere Information Integration product. IBM has also acquired Ascential Software, a direct competitor to the Company which may discourage purchases of the Company's Transformation Server product which competes with the Ascential products. DEPENDENCE ON DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS. A portion of the Company's revenue is derived from the sale of its products through third parties. There can be no assurance that the direct sales model will continue to work effectively for new products or that it will scale effectively as the Company attempts to grow its revenue from existing products. In addition, the Company may not be able to retain a sufficient number of its existing or future re-marketers and distributors, such re-marketers and distributors may give higher priority to the sale of other products (which could include products of competitors) or that these re-marketers and distributors devote sufficient resources to marketing of the Company's products. The Company depends on IBM business partners to remarket and distribute its products and there can be no assurance that IBM will continue to promote the Company to its business partners. The Company's future success depends on the Company's ability to recruit partners in new channels like business integration and application platform integration. The performance and financial strength of third party re-marketers and distributors is outside the control of the Company and the Company is unable to predict the extent to which these parties will be successful in marketing and selling the Company's products. 8 A reduction in sales efforts or discontinuance of sales of the Company's products by its re-marketers and distributors could lead to reduced sales and could, as a result, have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, other methods of product distribution may become important in the future, such as Internet access to products and services and other electronic distribution. The Company's success will depend, in part, upon its ability to attract and retain sufficient direct sales personnel, to maintain and expand access to existing channels of distribution and to gain access to new channels if and when they develop. See "Business Overview - Sales and Marketing". DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL. The success of the Company depends upon the continued contributions of key personnel including members of its senior management, including Nigel Stokes, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain these individuals or recruit other qualified personnel. The Company believes that its future success will also depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to continue to grow. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. The Company intends to continue to make efforts to increase international sales and anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of its revenue. These sales are subject to certain risks and costs associated with international operations, including the difficulty and expense of staffing and administering business abroad, difficulties in accounts receivable collection, complications in complying with foreign laws and domestic and international import and export laws and regulations, and costs related to localizing products for foreign markets and translating and distributing products in a timely manner. Significant international sales may also expose the Company to greater risk from political and economic instability, potential adverse tax consequences, unexpected changes in Canadian or other governmental policies concerning import and export of goods and technology, other regulatory requirements and tariffs and other trade barriers. In addition, while U.S. and Canadian copyright law, international conventions and international treaties may provide meaningful protection against unauthorized duplication of software, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Canada. Software piracy has been, and can be expected to be, a persistent problem for the software industry. See "Business Overview - Intellectual Property". There can be no assurance that these factors will not be experienced by the Company in the future or that they will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, international earnings may be subject to taxation by more than one jurisdiction or other adverse tax consequences, which could also materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations. CURRENCY EXCHANGE RISK. As the Company realizes a significant portion of its revenue in U.S. dollars and European currencies and incurs a significant portion of its operating expenses in Canadian dollars, changes in exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies could affect the Company's operating results. In fiscal 2005, the Canadian dollar's appreciation against the U.S. dollar was even more rapid than that in fiscal 2004. The Company's policy of hedging a portion of its foreign currency denominated accounts receivable can provide only short-term protection against a limited portion of the Company's foreign currency exposure. The appreciation of the Canadian dollar requires the Company to become more productive in order to maintain its margins. Although the Company has taken and will continue to focus on increasing the productivity of its Canadian operations there is no guarantee it will be successful in maintaining its current margins. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. The Company's operating results may vary significantly based upon the impact of actual or perceived changes in global economic conditions on its customers and their spending on information technology related products. The global economic environment since 2001 is more uncertain than in prior periods and has the potential to have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operating results. The Company's revenue and operating results depend in large part on the overall demand for integration and data protection solutions, and related computer software and services. A reduction of demand for integration and data protection solutions and related computer software and services caused by actual or perceived weakening in the global economy may result in decreased revenues and lower growth rates for the Company. Customers may defer or reconsider purchasing products from the Company if they experience a downturn in their business or if there is a downturn in general economic conditions. MANAGEMENT OF GROWTH. In recent years, due to internal growth and the PointBase acquisition the Company has experienced rapid growth in the scope of its operations. This growth has resulted in increased responsibilities for the Company's existing personnel, the hiring of additional personnel and, in general, higher levels of operating expenses. In addition, the Company may continue to experience rapid growth in the future, due to continued internal expansion, acquisition or other factors. In order to manage its current operations and any future growth effectively, the Company will need to continue to implement and improve its operational, financial and management information systems, to hire, manage and retain its employees, to integrate acquired businesses, technologies and personnel, if any, with existing operations and to maintain its corporate culture including technical and customer service standards. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage such growth effectively or that its management, personnel or systems will be adequate to support growth in the Company's operations. 9 SOFTWARE DEFECTS. The Company's products are technically complex and may contain undetected errors or performance problems. There can be no assurance that such errors or performance problems will not be discovered in the future, which may cause delays in product introduction and shipments, require design modifications or result in damage to the Company's reputation, loss of revenue, loss of market share, delay in market acceptance or product liability or other claims against the Company. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to correct any such errors on a timely basis, or at all. Correction of errors or other defects may require significant expenditures by the Company. Provisions contained in the Company's licence agreements that are designed to limit the Company's exposure to potential claims, as well as any liabilities arising from such claims, may not effectively protect the Company against some or all of such claims and the liability and costs associated therewith. Any of these possible occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. See "Business Overview - Research and Development". PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. The Company relies on contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect its proprietary rights. Despite any precautions that the Company takes to protect its intellectual property: (a) laws and contractual restrictions may be insufficient to prevent misappropriation of its technology or deter others from developing similar technologies; (b) current laws that prohibit software copying provide only limited protection from software "pirates," and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries; (c) other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state, provincial or foreign laws that precede any registrations the Company may receive for its trademarks; and (d) policing unauthorized use of the Company's products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the Company may be unable to determine the extent of this unauthorized use. It is possible that the Company's intellectual property rights could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in its inability to exploit, or its loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting, certain intellectual property. In addition, reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of the Company's technology could enable third parties to benefit from the Company's technology without paying the Company for it, which would significantly harm the Company's business. See "Business Overview - Intellectual Property". POTENTIAL INFRINGEMENT LIABILITY. As the number of software products in the industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, it is possible that software developers will become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Moreover, there has been an increase in the number of patents issued in Canada and the United States relating to computer software, and, accordingly, the risk of patent infringements in the industry can be expected to increase, potentially resulting in an increase in patent infringement claims. Shopplex.com Corporation carrying on business as Teilhard Technologies and Juxtacomm Technologies Inc. filed and served a Statement of Claim against the Company alleging infringement of a Canadian Patent (No. 2,241,767) and certain other related claims on July 15, 2004. By Order dated November 10, 2004, the Federal Court of Canada struck out all of the allegations of infringement in the Statement of Claim but provided the plaintiff with leave to amend. The Plaintiff filed an amended Statement of Claim and the Company filed and served the plaintiff with a motion to strike out the allegations of infringement again. The motion is scheduled to be heard on April 26, 2005. The Company believes the claims of infringement are without merit and intends to defend this matter vigorously. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. Such claims may result in costly litigation, diversion of management time and resources, financial liability or a requirement that the Company suspend licensing of its products or redesign its products, or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to successfully redesign its products, if required, or that any royalty or licensing agreements will be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such claim or the results thereof could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition. See "Business Overview - Intellectual Property". DEPENDENCE ON MAINTENANCE RENEWALS. The Company realises a significant portion of its revenue from maintenance and support services provided in connection with the products that it licences. There can be no assurance that licencees will continue to renew their maintenance and support services or that the Company will be able to charge its current rates for maintenance and support services in the future. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS. Pursuing, completing, and integrating recent and potential acquisitions could divert management's attention and financial resources and may not produce the desired business results. In the past the Company has made acquisitions of products and businesses. In the future, the Company may engage in additional selective acquisitions of other products or businesses. There can be no assurance that management will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates available for sale at reasonable prices, consummate any acquisition, or successfully integrate any acquired product or business into the Company's operations. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including: (a) diversion of management's attention; (b) disruption to the Company's ongoing business; (c) failure to retain key acquired personnel; (d) difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, technologies, products, and personnel; (e) unanticipated expenses, events, or circumstances; and (f) assumption of legal and other undisclosed liabilities. If the Company does not successfully address these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition, the acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if the Company proceeds with an acquisition, available cash may be used to complete the transaction, or shares may be issued which could cause a dilution to existing shareholders. 10 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGEMENTS. The enforcement by investors of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States may be affected adversely because: the Company is incorporated under the laws of Ontario; all of its officers and directors during fiscal 2005, with the exception of Bryan E. Plug and Rean Pretorius, are non-residents of the United States; some or all of the experts named in this annual report, if any, are residents of Canada; and the Company and a substantial portion of its assets are located outside the United States. SEASONALITY. The Company depends on both direct and indirect sales for revenues related to its iCluster and HA Suite products. The sale of these products is often linked to the sale of IBM hardware by IBM Business Partners. Generally, sales of these products are strongest in the calendar quarter ending December 31st and are reflected in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter of each year. There can no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful with the indirect sales model or will continue to partner with motivated distributors as the Company tries to grow revenue from these products. A weak calendar fourth quarter for IBM hardware and IBM Business Partners will adversely affect revenue from these products. In uncertain economic times customers may delay purchases until the end of their budgetary years which usually occur in the calendar fourth quarter. This may adversely affect revenue in other quarters or for the year in the event of economic disruption in the calendar fourth quarter. 