Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, including those set forth below, that could have a negative effect on our financial condition and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or other Red Lion communications. Our business requires capital for ongoing hotel maintenance, modernization and renovation, as well as for any acquisitions or development projects we may want to undertake. If needed capital is not available, our ability to successfully compete with hotels in our scale category may be adversely impacted. We are committed to keeping our properties well maintained and attractive to our customers in order to enhance our competitiveness within the industry and keep our hotels in the midscale category. We are also focused on working with our franchise owners to maintain their properties to the same standards. This requires ongoing access to capital for both us and our franchise hotel owners for replacement of outdated furnishings as well as for facility repair, modernization and renovation. To the extent we or the franchise hotel owners cannot fund these expenditures from cash generated from operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. If these funds cannot be obtained, the expenditures have to be deferred to a later period.Over the last four to five years, our levels of capital expenditures for these purposes have been lower than normal due to the general economic conditions impacting our industry. As a result, we will be required over the next 24 months to invest significant amounts in hotel maintenance, modernization and renovation in order to support the room rates that we have historically charged. If we are unable to make these investments, we may be required to reduce rates, which could cause our hotels to be classified in a lower scale category and generally have a material adverse effect on the Red Lion Brand and our business in general. In addition, 8Table of Contentsif our franchise hotels are unable to make similar investments in their properties, this could also have a material adverse effect on the Red Lion Brand and our business in general.Hotel maintenance and new project development are subject to a number of risks, including: •Availability of capital; •Construction delays and cost overruns; •Unavailability of rooms or meeting space for revenue generating activities during modernization and renovation projects;•Numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements and other required governmental permits and authorizations; •Uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; and •Potential environmental problems. The availability of capital for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends on a number of factors for ourselves and our franchise hotel owners including profitability, degree of leverage, the value of assets, borrowing restrictions which may be imposed by lenders and conditions in the credit markets. The condition of the capital markets and liquidity factors are outside our control, so there is no assurance that we or our franchise hotel owners will be able to obtain the necessary financing. If we raise capital through issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt, current shareholders may experience significant dilution. Moreover, our common stock has recently been trading at a multiple of Earnings Before Interest Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") that is higher than many of the companies in our industry, which may make it difficult to raise money through equity issuances without adversely impacting the trading price of our stock. If additional capital is obtained through financing, our leverage may increase. If our leverage increases, the resulting debt service could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with hotel maintenance and renovation and new project development could impact expected revenues and availability of funds, negatively affect our reputation among hotel customers, owners and franchisees and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, including the carrying costs of our assets. We have reported net losses from continuing operations from 2008 through 2012, and there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. During the years 2008 through 2012, we reported net losses from continuing operations. In addition to their direct adverse effect on our financial condition, these losses have increased our costs of borrowing and could well impair our ability to refinance maturing debt or raise capital needed for hotel maintenance and other corporate purposes. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. General economic conditions will continue to negatively impact our results and liquidity. Many businesses, including Red Lion, have been adversely affected by the state of the economy. Discretionary travel has decreased because of economic pressures, and this in turn has hurt the hospitality industry and our company. Over the last several years, high unemployment, lower family income, low corporate earnings, lower business investments and lower consumer and government spending all have reduced the demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services and put pressure on industry room rates and occupancy. Although the economy appears to be gradually improving, we still expect the operations of hotels in our network and financial results in 2013 will continue to be negatively impacted by general economic conditions, weak hospitality occupancy and rates and constraints on availability of financing for us and for potential acquirers of our hotels listed for sale. These factors could also negatively impact our ability to obtain future financing and our liquidity in general. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital and debt service for the foreseeable future, if our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate or we do not meet our financial debt covenants, we could potentially face liquidity problems that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We will be required to refinance our credit facility and other indebtedness in 2013, and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance that debt. 9Table of ContentsWe maintain a credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (“Wells Fargo”), which includes up to a $10.0 million revolving line of credit, none of which was outstanding at December 31, 2012, and a term loan on which $10.3 million was outstanding on that date. The term of the facility, as recently extended, matures on June 30, 2013. We also have an additional $38.9 million in secured debt that matures on July 11, 2013. As a result, we will be required to repay, refinance or renegotiate this indebtedness on or prior to its maturity.We have a commitment from Wells Fargo to provide a new credit facility with a five-year $53.8 million term loan and a two-year $10.0 million revolving line of credit upon maturity of the current facility. The new facility, which would be secured by approximately 20 of our hotel properties, would provide us adequate capital to refinance maturing debt. However, Wells Fargo's obligation to provide the facility is subject among other things to (i) negotiation of credit documents in form and substance satisfactory to it, (ii) satisfactory completion and review of appraisals on the properties collateralizing the facility, (iii) satisfactory completion and review of environmental due diligence, and (iv) the absence of any material adverse change prior to closing. Thus, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining this new credit facility.We are also currently pursuing sales of a number of our properties. We plan to use the net proceeds of these sales primarily to repay a portion of the maturing indebtedness. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to sell these properties at acceptable prices in time to repay maturing indebtedness. Moreover, even if these properties are timely sold, we will still need to refinance a substantial portion of the maturing indebtedness.There is no assurance that we will be able to repay, refinance or renegotiate our indebtedness on or prior to its maturity. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. For additional information, see Note 9, Note 10 and Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to comply with debt covenants could adversely affect our financial results or condition. Our current credit facility with Wells Fargo is secured by 11 of our properties and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, the most restrictive of which are financial covenants related to leverage and debt service coverage. We were in compliance with all of these covenants on December 31, 2012. Any new credit facility that replaces the current facility will likely have similar covenants. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Any failure to do so could result in a demand for immediate repayment of our obligations under the facility and any other indebtedness for which such failure or repayment demand constitutes an event of default, which would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, and limit our ability to obtain financing. For additional information, see Note 9 and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have incurred debt financing and may incur increased indebtedness in connection with capital expenditures, other corporate purposes or growth of our system of hotels. A substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by individual properties. Neither our Articles of Incorporation nor our Bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance hotel renovations, repairs and replacements, for general corporate purposes or for hotel acquisitions. If our leverage increases, the resulting debt service could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Our indebtedness is, and will likely continue to be, secured by mortgages on our owned hotels. If we are not able to meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets, including our hotels, to foreclosure. Adverse economic conditions could cause needed capital to be unavailable. In such circumstances, if we had to repay indebtedness, we could be required to sell one or more of our owned hotels at unattractive prices. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase debt service on our variable rate credit facilities and could reduce the amount of cash available for general corporate purposes. Our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. Our revenues and operating results may be impacted by and fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the following: •Changes in demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business and government travel as a result of general economic conditions; •Extended periods of low occupancy demand, which may negatively impact our ability to increase rates; 10Table of Contents•Changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; •The attractiveness of our hotels to consumers and competition from other hotels and the significant investment in hotel maintenance and renovation needed due to the last four to five years of reduced capital expenditure levels; •The need to periodically repair and renovate the hotels in our hotel network, including the ongoing need to refresh hotels to meet current industry standards and guest expectations; •Insufficient available capital to us or our franchise hotel owners to fund renovations and investments needed to maintain our competitive position; •The quality and performance of the employees of the hotels in our network; •Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and the resulting impacts on travel, including possible cancellation or reduction of scheduled flights into our markets and reductions in our business with airlines crews which regularly stay at our hotels in many markets; •Increases in operating costs, due to inflation and other factors such as minimum wage requirements, overtime, healthcare, working conditions, work permit requirements and other labor-related costs, energy prices, insurance and property taxes, as well as increases in construction or associated renovation costs; •Regulations and changes therein relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises; •Impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, heightened security measures and other national, regional or international political and geopolitical conditions; •Travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases or foodborne illness; •The impact of internet intermediaries and competitor pricing; •New supply or oversupply of hotel rooms in markets in which we operate; •Restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations, or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations; •Recently enacted, pending and possible future requirements to make substantial modifications to our hotels to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other governmental or regulatory requirements; •The financial condition of third-party property owners and franchisees, which may impact their ability to fund renovations and meet their financial obligations to us as required under franchise agreements; •Changes in guest expectations with respect to amenities at network hotels that require additional capital to meet; and •Improvements in technology that require capital investment by us or our franchise hotel owners in infrastructure to implement and maintain. Any of these factors could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and thereby reduce occupancy, ADR and RevPAR; give rise to government imposed fines or private litigants winning damage awards against us; or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our shareholders, including our largest shareholder which currently owns more than 28% of our stock, have in the past encouraged us to sell our company. These or other shareholders may seek to impact our corporate policy and strategy, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. In addition, given the amount of stock held by our largest shareholder, we would likely need its approval in order to undertake any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of our assets. If any of our larger shareholders or any group of shareholders decided to sell their shares, this would likely result in a significant decline in the trading price of our common stock. As of December 10, 2012, Columbia Pacific Opportunity Fund, L.P. ("Columbia Pacific") held more than 28% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In June of 2008, Columbia Pacific filed a Schedule 13D with the SEC disclosing that it had communicated to us that it believed we would be better able to maximize shareholder value through a liquidation or sale. It has subsequently filed numerous amendments to the Schedule 13D disclosing additional communications with our company. An amendment filed by Columbia Pacific on February 28, 2012 included a copy of a letter to our Board of Directors encouraging us to sell our company in its entirety or in parts. A number of other significant shareholders have also expressed to us similar sentiments. In March 2012, we retained BofA Merrill Lynch to advise us in connection with our exploration of strategic alternatives, including, among others, a potential sale of the company or a strategic combination with a third party. Our Board of Directors formed a Strategic Alternatives Committee to oversee the process. Over the ensuing months, our advisors contacted more than 75 potentially interested strategic industry and financial partners, including those that had expressed interest directly to us or were referred to us by shareholders. We received a limited number of non-binding indications of interest, but did not ultimately receive any offers. After taking into account the recommendation of the Strategic Alternatives Committee, our Board of Directors suspended the formal strategic alternatives process in September 2012.11Table of ContentsColumbia Pacific or one or more other shareholders may take actions designed to impact our corporate policy and strategy, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Such actions could include, among other things, attempting to obtain control of our Board of Directors or initiating or substantially assisting an unsolicited takeover attempt. Under our Articles of Incorporation and the laws of the state where we are incorporated, we can undertake a merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets only if the transaction is approved by holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares of common stock. This in turn means that any person or group of persons holding at least one-third of our outstanding shares of common stock would be able to block any such transaction if they chose to do so. Because Columbia Pacific already holds so close to one-third of our shares, we believe that as a practical matter it will be able, either acting alone or with other shareholders, to prevent any such transaction believed not to be in its or their best interests. This state of affairs adds a level of uncertainty to our business and operations, including in employee hiring and retention, in franchise acquisitions, and in generally developing corporate policy and strategy. In addition, because our common stock is relatively thinly traded, if Columbia Pacific or any other significant shareholders decided to sell their holdings of our common stock, this would likely result in a significant decline in its trading price. Our stock price may also fluctuate materially based on announcements by our shareholders disclosing acquisitions or sales of our common stock or expressing their views with respect to actions they believe should be taken by our company. Due to the geographic concentration of the hotels in our system, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. Of the 48 hotels in our system at December 31, 2012, 33 are located in Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Montana. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition may be impacted by the economy of the Pacific Northwest, which is dependent in large part on a limited number of major industries, including agriculture, tourism, technology, timber and aerospace. These industries may be affected by: •The rate of national and local unemployment; •The relative strength of national and local economies; and •Changes in governmental regulations. In addition, companies in these industries may decide to relocate all or part of their businesses outside the Pacific Northwest. Any of these factors could materially affect the local economies in which these industries operate and where we have a presence. Other adverse events specifically affecting the Pacific Northwest, such as economic recessions or natural disasters, could cause a loss of revenues for our hotels in this region. Our concentration of assets within this region may put us at greater economic risk. In addition, we operate or market multiple hotels within several markets. A downturn in general economic or other relevant conditions in these specific markets or in any other market in which we operate could lead to a decline in demand in these markets and cause a loss of revenues from these hotels. Our expenses may remain constant or increase even if revenues decline. The expenses of owning and operating a hotel are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in its revenues. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. In addition, we have recently been investing in sales and marketing, technology, franchising and personnel resources in an effort to position our company for future growth. These investments may not produce returns we anticipate or the returns may take longer to achieve than expected. We are exposed to impairment risk of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts fair value measurement through our company's estimated weighted average cost of capital used to determine discount rate, and through our common stock price that is used to determine market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. At the end of both 2012 and 2011, our recorded goodwill amount was $8.5 million, and other intangible assets totaled $7.0 million. In connection with the listing for sale of two of our properties in 2011, we disposed of goodwill totaling $5.3 million. Also in 2011, during our annual impairment testing, we determined that the carrying amount of the hotel reporting unit exceeded its fair value. Accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge of the remaining $14.2 million in the hotel reporting unit was recognized. Continued adverse market conditions could have a further impact on the fair value of our reporting units that could result in future 12Table of Contentsimpairments of Franchise and Entertainment goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. While we have not previously recorded any impairment losses on our remaining goodwill which is allocated to our franchise and entertainment reporting units, continued adverse market conditions could have an impact on the fair value of those reporting units that could result in future impairments of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. If we do not meet our franchise reporting unit growth projections and or do not renew existing franchise agreements, the goodwill associated with this reporting unit could be impaired in future evaluations. In addition, future impairments of our assets held for sale could occur if market conditions change and or we must sell assets to meet other obligations. If the financial performance of our entertainment division further declines or we cannot expand the division to increase growth, the goodwill associated with this reporting unit could be impaired in future evaluations.The assessment for possible impairment requires us to make judgments, including: •Estimated future cash flows from the respective properties or business units, which are dependent upon internal forecasts;•Estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business; •The useful life over which our cash flows will occur; •The determination of real estate and prevailing market values; •Asset appraisals; and •Current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers or net sales proceeds from previous, comparable transactions, if available and appropriate. In accordance with the guidance for the impairment of long-lived assets, if the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than net book value, the excess of net book value over estimated fair value of the assets is charged to current earnings. As discussed further in Note 5, Note 6, and Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, during the year ended December 31, 2012, assets that were held for sale with a carrying amount of $61.1 million were written down to their estimated fair value, resulting in pre-tax impairment charges to continuing operations of $9.4 million and pre-tax impairment charges to discontinued operations of $6.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, assets, including assets that were held for sale with a carrying amount of $39.8 million were written down to their estimated fair value, resulting in pre-tax impairment charges to continuing operations of $8.9 million and pre-tax impairment charges to discontinued operations of $0.6 million. Changes in our estimates and assumptions as they relate to valuation of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets could affect, potentially materially, our financial condition or results of operations in the future. The lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hospitality and leisure companies. The lodging industry is comprised of numerous national, regional and local hotel companies and is highly competitive. Competition for occupancy is focused on three major categories of travelers: business travelers, convention and group business travelers and leisure travelers. All three categories are significant occupancy drivers for our hotel system and our marketing efforts are geared towards attracting their business. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities and quality of accommodations. We compete against national limited and full service hotel brands and companies, as well as various regional and local hotels in the midscale and upscale full-service hotel segments of the industry. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, a larger network of locations and greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Additionally, new and existing competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels. The ability of us and our franchise owners to remain competitive and to attract and retain customers depends on our success in differentiating and enhancing the quality, value and efficiency of our product and customer service and our ability to make additional capital investment to modernize and update our hotels. We also compete with other hotel brands and management companies for hotels to add to our network, including through franchise and management agreements. Our competitors include management companies as well as large hotel chains that own and operate their hotels and franchise their brands. As a result, the terms of prospective franchise and management agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In addition, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties in connection with future franchise or management agreements. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, our market share and operating results could be diminished, resulting in a decrease in occupancy, ADR and RevPAR for our hotels. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our hotel locations, thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. 13Table of ContentsWe may be unsuccessful in identifying and completing franchise acquisitions and expansion of the brand, which could limit our ability to implement our growth strategy and result in significant expense. We are continuing to pursue the expansion of our franchise operations in markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. We are also pursuing expansion by dividing the existing Red Lion brand into targeted segments. Red Lion Hotels, Red Lion Inns & Suites and the Leo Hotel Collection. Both owned and franchised hotels will be able to carry the Red Lion Hotel or Red Lion Inns & Suites brand, while the Leo Hotel Collection brand will be exclusive to our franchise division. This may require considerable management time as well as expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels: •Competition with other hotel companies, many of which have more franchisees in their systems and more resources to assist new franchises with capital expenditures needed to satisfy brand standards; •Our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees; •The recognition in the market and the reputation of the Red Lion or Leo Hotel Collection brands; •Our dependence on our independent franchisees' skills and access to financial resources necessary to open or rebrand hotels;•The ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to the Red Lion or Leo Hotel Collection brands, include, among others: •The availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel; •The cost and availability of suitable hotel locations; •The availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments;•Cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which can be delayed due to, among other reasons, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and•Securing required governmental permits; •Our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our central reservation system to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner;•The effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization;•Our failure to compete successfully for franchise properties or to attract and maintain relationships with hotel owners and hotel investors could adversely affect our ability to expand our system of hotels. An inability to implement our growth strategy could limit our ability to grow our revenue base and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. If our franchisees terminate or fail to renew their relationship with our company, if new franchisees are unable to effectively integrate their hotels into our system, or if franchisees are unprofitable or go out of business, our franchise revenue will decline. As of December 31, 2012, there were 20 hotels in our system that were owned by others and operated under franchise agreements. Franchise agreements generally specify a fixed term and contain an early termination provision for the licensee to terminate at specific intervals or for specific reasons with or without penalty by providing notice to us. There is no assurance that these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms. We have one franchise agreement that expired at the end of 2012 and one franchise agreement that expires in 2013 although we are working with this franchisee to execute a new franchise agreement. We have one franchise agreement that provides the ability to exit without penalty in 2014. We have one franchise agreement expiring in each of the years 2014 and 2015. We have five franchise agreements that provide the licensee the ability to terminate without penalty in 2015 and one in 2016. We also have one franchise agreement that provides the licensee the ability to terminate at any time without penalty after May 2013.Government regulation could impact our franchise business. The Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have "franchise relationship laws" or "business opportunity laws" that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect. 14Table of ContentsThe results of some of our hotels are significantly impacted by group contract business and other large customers, and the loss of such customers for any reason could harm our operating results. Group contract business and other large customers, or large events, can significantly impact the results of operations of the hotels in our network. These contracts and customers vary from hotel to hotel and change from time to time. Such contracts with large customers such as airlines and railroads are typically for a limited period of time after which they may be eligible for competitive bidding. The impact and timing of group business and large events are not always predictable and are often episodic in nature. The operating results for the hotels in our network can fluctuate as a result of these factors, possibly in adverse ways, and these fluctuations can harm our overall operating results. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brand. If demand for our hotels decreases or the value of our name, image or brand diminishes, our business and operations would be harmed. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by presenting innovative, attractive and comfortable properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business would be harmed if our public image or reputation were to be diminished by the actions of any of the hotels in our network. Our brand name and trademarks are integral to our marketing efforts. If the value of our name, image or brand were diminished, our business and operations would be harmed. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore our ability to promptly sell one or more of our hotels in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions is limited. The real estate market, including the market for our hotels, is affected by general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We may be unable to sell our hotels listed for sale and, even if we are able to sell the hotels, it may take us a long time to find willing purchasers, the sales may be on unfavorable terms or we may need to reduce sale prices to points that do not meet all of our objectives for the sales. We also may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel can be sold. If we do not have funds available for such purposes, our ability to sell the hotel could be restricted or the price at which we can sell the hotel may be less than if these improvements were made. In addition, it may be difficult or impossible to convert hotels to alternative uses if they become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to an alternative use would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to service debt, including our debentures. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our hotels. We may be unable to sell our properties that are currently listed for sale or that we might list for sale in the future.We have listed a number of our properties for sale, including the Red Lion Hotel Pendleton in Pendleton, Oregon, the Red Lion Hotel Medford in Medford, Oregon, and the Kalispell Mall in Kalispell, Montana. In addition, we may in the future choose to list other properties for sale. Sales of one or more of the properties or future properties now or hereafter listed may take longer than anticipated, may not occur at all, or may occur at price points that do not meet all of our objectives for the sales. In addition, the sale of properties may negatively impact the value of the Red Lion brand or our ability to obtain new franchisees, particularly if the purchasers of the hotels do not continue to flag the properties with the Red Lion brand or, if they do continue with the Red Lion flag, do not maintain the hotels in a manner that meets brand standards or guest expectations. We are subject to various obligations and restrictions under the leases governing our leased properties. In addition, we may not be able to renew these leases on favorable terms or at all. Five of our hotels and our corporate offices are subject to leases. In addition to the requirement to pay rent, the leases for these properties generally impose various maintenance and other obligations on us and may also require us to obtain the consent 15Table of Contentsof the landlord before taking certain actions such as modifications to the properties. These lease provisions may limit our flexibility with the leased properties, delay modifications or other actions we may wish to take, or result in disputes with the landlords. In addition, the terms of the leases for three of our leased properties will expire in the period from 2018 to 2024. The lease on our corporate office space expires in 2017. There is no assurance that the landlords will be willing to extend the leases for these properties or our corporate offices and, even if they are willing to extend, it is possible that the lease costs will increase, which would adversely impact the hotel operations and our expenses. Risks associated with real estate ownership may adversely affect revenue or increase expenses. We are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real property. Revenue and cash flow from our hotels and other real estate may be adversely affected by, and costs may increase as a result of, changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: •Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; •Changes in local real estate market conditions; •Increases in interest rates, and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing and capital leases; •Increases in property and other taxes; •The impact of present or future environmental legislation; •Adverse changes in other governmental regulations, insurance and zoning laws; and •Condemnation or taking of properties by governments or related entities. These adverse conditions could potentially cause the terms of our borrowings to change unfavorably. In such circumstances, if we were in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more hotels at unattractive prices. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through third-party travel websites such as Priceline.com, Travelocity.com and Expedia.com. As internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as "three-star downtown hotel") at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our profitability may be adversely affected. We are in the process of launching a new online presence where each of our hotels has its own uniquely focused web identity with information tailored specifically to its region. This began with the launch of our new corporate website in January 2013 and will continue through mid-2013 with the roll-out of an individual, hyper-local site for each hotel property. Our goal with this investment is to increase the number of reservations received directly through our websites, since these are more profitable than those obtained through high commission or fee-based third-party channels. There can be no assurance that this investment will result in an increase of direct reservations through our websites, nor that such increase, if it occurs, will be sufficient to offset the cost of the investment. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes which would harm the operation of our hotels. We rely heavily on our employees to provide high-quality personal service at our hotels. At certain of our owned and leased hotels, employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and attempts could be made in the future to unionize our employees at other locations. Any labor dispute or stoppage could harm our ability to provide high-quality personal services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and harm our results of operations. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. The nature of our responsibilities under our franchise agreements or any hotel management agreements we may enter into in the future may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees, hotel owners and joint 16Table of Contentsventure partners. However, we may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in franchisees leaving our system of hotels, or in litigation, arbitration or other legal actions. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the period from May through October generally accounting for the greatest portion of our annual revenues. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks during this period, including labor force shortages, cash flow problems, economic downturns and poor weather conditions. The adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Our properties are subject to risks relating to natural disasters, terrorist activity and war, and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results without adequate insurance coverage or preparedness. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where we own or operate significant properties. We carry comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for our properties. However, certain types of catastrophic losses, such as those from earthquake, volcanic activity, flood, terrorism and environmental hazards, may exceed or not be covered by our insurance coverage. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, threatened or actual terrorist activity, war, epidemics, travel-related accidents, geopolitical uncertainty, international conflict and similar events that impact domestic and international travel have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. In addition, depending on the severity, a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity at hotels in our network and consequently impact the value of our brand or the reputation of our business. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •Earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; •Power losses, computer system failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and •Computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information, and other breaches of security. We rely on our systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation system. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the systems' function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations, we could be subject to fines or other restrictions on our business. We collect and maintain information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including credit card information and information on guest preferences that we use to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the U.S. and by various contracts under which we operate. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may subject us to inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability or the ability of hotels in our network to service our guests and market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, noncompliance with applicable privacy regulations, either by us or in some circumstances by third parties engaged by us or our franchise hotel owners, could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Failure to maintain the security of internal or customer data could adversely affect us. Our operations require us to collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers, which are entered into, processed by, summarized by and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. Our franchise hotel owners also maintain similar personally identifiable information, on systems that we do not control. The security of this data may potentially be breached due to a number of risks, including cyber-attack, system failure, 17Table of Contentscomputer virus, or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, company employees, franchisees or employees of third party vendors. A theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data by us or our franchise hotel owners could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant remedial and other costs, fines and litigation. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks, increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. We have registered various formulations of the following trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, including by not limited to: Red Lion, Leo Hotel Collection, WestCoast, Cavanaughs, Stay Comfortable and TicketsWest. We have also registered various formulations of the Red Lion trademark in Canada, Mexico, Australia, the European Union and a number of countries in Asia. We cannot be assured that the measures we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental regulations. Our results of operations may be affected by the cost of complying with existing and future environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under current federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such contaminated property properly, may prevent us from selling the property or using it as collateral for a loan. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or transferred or in which businesses may be operated, and may impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our acquisition of a hotel, a Phase I environmental assessment is conducted by a qualified independent environmental engineer. A Phase I environmental assessment involves an on-site inspection and research of historical usages of a property, databases of underground storage tanks and other matters to determine whether an environmental issue with respect to the property needs to be addressed. If the results of a Phase I environmental assessment reveal potential issues that warrant further investigation, a Phase II environmental assessment, which may include soil testing, ground water monitoring or borings to locate underground storage tanks, will be recommended. It is possible that Phase I and Phase II environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that there will be material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns of which we will not be aware. Phase I environmental assessments have been performed on all properties owned and leased by us. We have not performed Phase II environmental assessments on three of our owned properties for which Phase II assessments were recommended. For two of these properties, information later obtained convinced us that a Phase II assessment was unnecessary. With respect to the third property, we determined that any further investigation was not warranted for materiality reasons. In March 2009, odors in the basement of our hotel property in Salt Lake City led to the detection of a release of petroleum from an adjacent gas station owned by Sinclair Marketing. Petroleum and petroleum constituents were identified in soil and groundwater on both properties. Under the oversight of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), Sinclair took steps to remediate the properties by excavating contaminated soils and by pumping and treating contaminated groundwater. Sinclair reimbursed us for our costs, including attorneys' fees, related to its remediation efforts. On February 9, 2012, the DEQ sent Sinclair a "No Further Action" letter stating that, although petroleum-contaminated soil and groundwater remained from the release, it was not considered a threat to human health and the environment, and therefore, no further remedial action was required. However, the letter also noted that, if future changes to these characteristics created a threat to human health or the environment, additional corrective action might be required. If future remediation is ever required and Sinclair does not perform it, we as the owner of the property could be held responsible.At the request of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), we have implemented remedial actions as a result of a historic petroleum release at our Kalispell property. These activities consisted of a utility corridor investigation, municipal water sampling, monitoring well drilling and installation, and semi-annual groundwater monitoring. The purpose of this work is to provide additional documentation of the extent and magnitude of hydrocarbon contamination at the site. At this time, ten monitoring wells have been installed and the lateral extent of the subsurface petroleum contamination has been determined. The 18Table of Contentsmost recent groundwater monitoring report (November 2, 2012) indicates that contaminant concentrations are relatively low and decreasing in the affected wells. Future site activities will consist of conducting a remedial alternatives analysis to select a remediation option that will accelerate contaminant cleanup. The costs associated with this work are being reimbursed by the Montana Petroleum Tank Release Compensation Fund. Additionally, three new petroleum releases were discovered during the recent Phase II Environmental Site Assessment that has been conducted in anticipation of the sale of the property. These releases have been reported to the Montana DEQ. The DEQ has determined that one release is attributed to offsite migration of petroleum contaminants onto the Kalispell property and there, the existing responsible party is liable for investigation and cleanup. The second release is associated with historic use activities and is considered part of the ongoing remedial actions. The third release is related to a historic service station that occupied the southeast corner of the property circa 1955 to 1975. We have submitted an application for eligibility to the Montana Petroleum Tank Release Compensation Fund for reimbursement of future remedial investigation and cleanup costs associated with this facility.Other than as disclosed above, we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any material noncompliance, material liability or material claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that these properties do not have any environmental concerns associated with them. In addition, there is no assurance that we will not discover problems we are unaware of that currently exist, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by third parties unrelated to us. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could impact our business. There can be no assurance that the periodic evaluation of our internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will not result in the identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that our auditors will be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply may have consequences on our business including, but not limited to, increased risks of financial statement misstatements, SEC sanctions and negative capital market reactions. We face risks relating to litigation. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against us, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money and we may not be insured for such a loss. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely impacted by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, accessibility and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits in the future may be instituted against us and we may incur material damages and expenses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years there has been increasing activity by patent holding companies (so-called patent "trolls") that do not use technology but whose sole business is to enforce patents for monetary gain against companies in a wide variety of businesses and industries. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a substantial sum of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if infringement is unsubstantiated or speculative. We have been threatened with one such claim and two claims have actually been filed against us. Each claim is related to separate technology, but we believe that each such technology is non-proprietary. One of the claims has been resolved, and the other is pending. If we are ultimately found to have violated a patent, our operations could be negatively impacted and/or we might be subject to substantial financial penalties, licensing fees and attorneys' fees. It is not possible to predict the potential impact on our business and operations of any future claims of this type that may be asserted against us. If any hotel acquisitions fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if we are unable to effectively integrate new hotels into our operations, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Based on our experience, newly acquired, developed or converted hotels typically begin with lower occupancy and room rates, thereby resulting in lower revenue. Any future expansion within our existing markets could adversely affect the financial 19Table of Contentsperformance of our hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively impact our overall results of operations. Potential expansion into new markets may also present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. Our inability to anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our management and management information and reservation systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to any new markets, could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our central reservation system for occupancy at our hotels and any failures in such system could negatively affect our revenues and cash flows. The hospitality industry requires the use of technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations, operation of customer loyalty programs, distribution and other purposes. These technologies can be expected to change guests' expectations, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced requiring further investment capital. We maintain a hotel reservation system that allows us to manage our hotel network's rooms inventory through various distribution channels, including our websites, and execute rate management strategies. As part of our marketing strategy, we encourage guests to book on our website, which guarantees the lowest rate available compared to third-party travel websites. The development and maintenance of our central reservation system and other technologies may require significant capital. We have recently launched our updated primary website and are currently upgrading individual property websites to the same platform. There can be no guarantee that the upgrade of the individual websites can be completed in a timely manner. There can also be no assurances that, as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and time frames. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. If our systems fail to operate properly or achieve the anticipated benefits, or if we fail to keep up with technological or competitive advances, our revenues and cash flows could suffer. Our central reservation system includes a third-party operated call center that enables guests to make reservations on a 24/7 basis. Poor performance by the third party provider, disputes with the third party provider, increased costs of the call center or our inability to renew or extend our agreement with the third party on favorable terms could adversely impact the hotel operations and our expenses. Joint venture arrangements we might enter into may not reflect solely our best interests and may subject these investments to increased risks. We may in the future acquire additional interests in other properties through joint venture arrangements with other entities. In addition, we may enter into other non-property investment joint ventures through other divisions such as our Entertainment Division or for marketing or other services. Partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks. Some of these acquisitions may be financed in whole or in part by loans under which we are jointly and severally liable for the entire loan amount along with the other joint venture partners. The terms of these joint venture arrangements may be more favorable to the other party or parties than to us. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, investing in a property through such arrangements may subject that investment to risks not present with a wholly owned property, including, among others, the following: •The other owner(s) of the investment might become bankrupt; •The other owner(s) may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; •The other owner(s) may be unable to make required payments on loans under which we are jointly and severally liable; •The other owner(s) may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, such as selling the property at a time when to do so would have adverse consequences to us; •Actions by the other owner(s) might subject the property to liabilities in excess of those otherwise contemplated by us; and •It may be difficult for us to sell our interest in the property at the time we deem a sale to be in our best interests. Failure to retain senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with greater financial resources than ours, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. Finding suitable replacements for senior management and other key employees could be difficult, and there can be no assurance we will continue to be successful in retaining or attracting qualified personnel in the future. We generally do not carry key person insurance on 20Table of Contentsmembers of our senior management team, so any death or disability of a senior team member could have a material adverse impact on our operations without any corresponding insurance recovery. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience extreme volatility, oftentimes unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise or fall, including but not limited to: •Changes in general economic conditions, such as the 2007-2009 recession, and subsequent fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; •Changes in financial estimates, expectations of future financial performance or recommendations by analysts; •Changes in market valuations of companies in the hospitality industry; •Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; •Issuances of additional common stock or other securities;•Announcements by our shareholders disclosing acquisitions or sales of our common stock or expressing their views with respect to actions they believe should be taken by our company; and •Announcements by us or our competitors of, or speculation with respect to, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Washington law and our governing corporate documents contain provisions that could deter takeover attempts. Our company is incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction, such as a merger, with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an "acquiring person") for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder becomes an acquiring person. The performance of our entertainment division is particularly subject to fluctuations in economic conditions. Our entertainment division, which comprised 6.1% of our revenues from continuing operations in 2012, engages in event ticketing and the presentation of various entertainment productions. Our entertainment division is vulnerable to risks associated with general regional and economic conditions, significant competition and changing consumer trends, among others. The overall economy in the markets we serve has impacted the ticketing division through lower demand for concerts, events and sporting activities. Also, we face the risk that entertainment productions will not tour the regions in which we operate or that such productions will not choose us as a presenter or promoter. If we are unable to locate lessees for our retail space at our mall, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. We own over 162,000 square feet of retail space in Kalispell, Montana that we lease to various businesses. Vacancies can occur when a lease terminates, the tenant's business fails, or the tenant breaches its lease obligations. In addition, one of our major anchor tenants has the right to terminate its lease if other major tenants cease to be tenants of the mall. Leases might not be renewed upon expiration, we may be unable to find new tenants for the space, or the terms of new or renewal leases, including the cost of required renovations, might be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Delays or difficulties in attracting tenants and costs incurred in preparing for tenant occupancy could reduce cash flow, decrease the value of the property and jeopardize our ability to pay our expenses. 21Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 