Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business THE COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND CANNOT GUARANTEE PROFITABLE OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE ON OUR PART TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY MAY CAUSE US TO REDUCE OR EVENTUALLY CEASE OPERATIONS. The Company incurred a net loss of $6,941,171 for the twelve months ending December 31, 2011, and had an accumulated deficit of $103,857,474. The Company incurred a net loss of $10,913,897 for the twelve months ending December 31, 2010. If the Company continues to incur significant losses, our cash reserves may be depleted earlier than currently anticipated, and the Company may be required to limit our future growth objectives to levels corresponding with our then available cash reserves, or may not be able to continue operations. NOTES PAYABLE ($120,000) AND REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK ($4,675,291) IN THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $4,895,291 WILL COME DUE IN 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had a cash balance of $313,073. Over the last several years, we have been funding our operations through the sale of both equity and debt securities. Although the vast majority of our convertible notes had been converted into common stock, as of March 31, 2012, we still have $320,000 worth of convertible notes outstanding ($120,000 of which comes due in 2012). Further, we have $8,061,988 worth of Series I and II redeemable preferred stock outstanding, of which $4,675,291 comes due in 2012. If the noteholders and/or preferred stock holders decide not to convert their securities to common stock, we will have an obligation to redeem the shares of Series I and II redeemable preferred stock for cash. In such case, the Company would have to find sources of cash to re-pay such investors and there can be no assurance such resources will be available. OUR ACCOUNTANTS HAVE RAISED SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT WITH RESPECT TO OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN As noted in our financial statements, we have incurred a net loss of $6,941,171 for year ending December 31, 2011, and had an accumulated deficit of $103,857,474. We incurred a net loss of $10,913,897 for the year ending December 31, 2010. Although we have generated revenue, we are still operating at a net loss, and may continue to incur losses for a period of time. We will be required to obtain additional financing in order to repay existing contractual obligations coming due in 2012, continue to cover operating losses and working capital needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. The audit report of M&K, CPAs, PLLC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 contained a paragraph that emphasizes the substantial doubt as to our continuance as a going concern. This is a significant risk that we may not be able to generate or raise enough capital to remain operational for an indefinite period of time. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FUNDING. We will need additional funding. The issuance of additional securities in connection with such funding and the issuance of the common stock upon exercise or conversion and payment of dividends and interest on the preferred and on outstanding convertible securities could result in price reductions in outstanding securities and substantial dilution. We will need additional equity funding to provide the capital to achieve our objectives and there is no assurance that such funding will be available. Additional sales of substantial amounts of the Common Stock and securities convertible into our Common Stock could reduce the market price for the Common Stock. Such equity issuance would cause a substantially larger number of shares to be outstanding, thereby diluting the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. In addition, public sales of substantial amounts of the Common Stock after this offering could reduce the market price for the Common Stock. If we raise capital in the future by issuing additional equity securities, investors may experience a decline in the value of their securities. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of our Common Stock, of which 16,197,966 were outstanding at the close of business on March 28, 2012, and 1,000,000 shares each of preferred stock Series I and II, of which 947,058 of Series I and 665,339 of Series II were outstanding at the close of business on March 21, 2012. Our Articles of Incorporation (as amended to date) gives our Board of Directors authority to issue the undesignated shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights, preferences and limitations as the Board may determine. The Board has designated 5,000,000 shares of a Series A Convertible Preferred Stock but has no current intention of issues any of the Series A Preferred Stock. The aggregate number of shares issuable pursuant to outstanding warrants, including those issued in connection with the Notes and Series I and II Preferred Stock is 23,736,108 and pursuant to outstanding options is approximately 5,645,202 shares. At March 21, 2012, we also had approximately 14,073,132 shares of our Common Stock reserved for future stock options under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. The issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon conversion of the Series I and II Preferred Stock, exercise of the Warrants and exercise of outstanding options and warrants, or in other transactions would cause dilution of existing shareholders’ percentage ownership of the Company. Holders of our Common Stock do not have preemptive rights, meaning that current shareholders do not have the right to purchase any new shares in order to maintain their proportionate ownership in the Company. Such stock issuances and the resulting dilution could also adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. We also entered into registration rights agreements in connection with the Notes pursuant to which we have agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement covering the resale of the Common Stock underlying the Notes, Series I and II Preferred Stock and the Warrants. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCT. The Company has not conducted, nor have others made available to us, results of market research indicating how much market demand exists for Z Trim, our functional food ingredient. The Company is relying on the current concerns over obesity, weight-health issues, and the rising cost of health care to drive demand for Z Trim in the marketplace. We cannot assure you that we will be able to gain the market acceptance necessary to achieve profitability. WE MAKE NO PROJECTIONS REGARDING THE VIABILITY OF OUR FUNCTIONAL FOOD INGREDIENT AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL ACHIEVE THE RESULTS DESCRIBED. We make no projection with respect to our future income, assets or business. No expert has reviewed our business plan for accuracy or reasonableness. It is likely that our actual business and results of operations will differ from those presented herein. 3 WE HAVE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR CURRENT REVENUES AND ORDER BOOKINGS WITH A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. Revenues recognized over the past year and order bookings received to date are concentrated with a small number of customers. The loss of one or more of our customers or material changes to the contracts with or payment terms of these customers may result in a significant business interruption through reduced revenues, reduced cash flows, delays in revenues or cash flows and such delays or reductions could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future revenue growth and results of operations. THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON THE CONVERSION OR EXERCISE OF OUTSTANDING NOTES, PREFERRED STOCK, WARRANTS AND OPTIONS IS SUBSTANTIAL. The aggregate number of shares issuable pursuant to currently outstanding convertible notes is 154,402, including interest accrued on the Notes. The aggregate number of shares issuable upon conversion of the Series I and II Preferred Stock, including shares to be issued as dividends to the Redemption Date is 9,351,906. The aggregate number of shares issuable pursuant to outstanding warrants, including those issued in 2008 through March 1, 2012, is 23,736,108. We have outstanding options for 5,645,202 shares of our Common Stock. Issuance of these shares would substantially dilute the interests of our current stockholders. THE AGREEMENT GOVERNING THE COMPANY’S OUTSTANDING CONVERTIBLE NOTES AND PREFERRED STOCK CONTAIN VARIOUS COVENANTS THAT LIMIT ITS ABILITY TO TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS AND THE COMPANY’S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ANY OF THE COVENANTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The agreements governing the company’s outstanding convertible notes and the Series I and II Preferred Stock contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to incur additional debt or liens or pay dividends, redeem any of its outstanding capital stock. The terms of the Series I Preferred Stock and the Series II Preferred Stock require a deferral of the payment of any dividends, redemption and other payments otherwise due there under, until the Notes are paid in full without the prior approval of the noteholders. Such deferral would not constitute a default under the Series I and II Preferred Stock. The Company’s failure to comply with any of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITY IS CURRENTLY OPERATING AT A LOSS. We are presently operating at a negative gross margin as our cost of production exceeds the sales price of the product. The changes that are being made to the manufacturing process, intended to allow us to produce at a positive gross margin have yet to be completed and may not be successful. The current manufacturing facility is merely a pilot plant. In order to fully implement our business plans we will need to move the operations to a larger facility, develop strategic partnerships or find other means to produce greater volumes of finished product, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so or to achieve positive gross margins and profitable operations. WE RELY UPON A LIMITED NUMBER OF PRODUCT OFFERINGS. The majority of the products that we have sold as of December 31, 2011 have been based on corn and oat. Although we market our products as an active food ingredient for inclusion in other companies’ products, and in other ways, a decline in the market demand for our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us. THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS THAT WE USE IN OUR BUSINESS ARE SUBJECT TO WEATHER AND OTHER FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. All of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using agricultural products, mainly corn and oat. Historically, the costs of corn and oat are subject to substantial fluctuations depending upon a number of factors which affect commodity prices in general and over which the Company has no control, including crop conditions, weather, government programs and purchases by foreign governments. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging, and energy costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We currently do not hedge against changes in commodity prices. THE COMPANY IS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDENT ON ITS MANUFACTURING FACILITIES; ANY OPERATIONAL DISRUPTION COULD RESULT IN A REDUCTION OF THE COMPANY’S SALES VOLUMES AND COULD CAUSE IT TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES. The Company’s revenues are and will continue to be derived from the sale of functional food ingredients made from dietary fiber that the Company’s manufactures at its facility. The Company’s operations may be subject to significant interruption if its facility experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, the Company’s operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The Company’s insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above or that it will be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. WE FACE COMPETITION. Competition is intense in our targeted industries, including nutraceuticals, functional food ingredients, oils, gums and a large number of businesses engaged in the various fat replacement industries. Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that are widely recognized as providing similar calorie reduction. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, and technical resources than we the Company have. If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives. 4 OUR INABILITY TO SECURE AND PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY RESULT IN COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMING LITIGATION AND COULD IMPEDE US FROM EVER ATTAINING MARKET SUCCESS. We license or hold several patents as well as copyrights and trademarks with respect to our products and expect to continue to file applications in the future as a means of protecting our intellectual property. In addition, we seek to protect our proprietary information and know-how through the use of trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other similar security measures. With respect to patents, there can be no assurance that any applications for patent protection will be granted, or, if granted, will offer meaningful protection. The technology employed by Z Trim in its products is licensed to the company by the United States Department of Agriculture. The USDA patent expires 2015 and we will therefore lose our patent protection with respect to that patent at that time. Although the company has additional process patents on file and intends to file a patent for an insoluble fiber product in the next few months, there can be no assurance that new patents will in fact issue or that they will provide effective protection. The Company has received two additional patents in its name: Patent Nos. 7,763,301 and 7,625,591. Additionally, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our products, or that any confidentiality agreements upon which we rely to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PREVENT DISCLOSURE OF TRADE SECRETS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY INFORMATION AND MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. IF OUR FOOD PRODUCTS BECOME ADULTERATED, MISBRANDED, OR MISLABELED, WE MIGHT NEED TO RECALL THOSE ITEMS AND MAY EXPERIENCE PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS IF CONSUMERS ARE INJURED. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. OUR COMPETITORS MAY DESIGN PRODUCTS AROUND OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION. We hold an intellectual property portfolio, including patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection. Our competitors, however, may design around our patent claims, rendering our patent protection ineffective against such competitors. Similarly, our competitors may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets and technical know-how. Such occurrences could increase competitive pressure on our marketing and sales efforts. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE VALUABLE, AND ANY INABILITY TO PROTECT THEM COULD REDUCE THE VALUE OF OUR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND BRAND. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our products and services. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN AVOIDING CLAIMS THAT WE INFRINGE OTHERS’ PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY JUDGMENTS OR LICENSING FEES. Any infringement claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming and result in costly litigation, and could require us to discontinue any of our practices that are found to be in violation of another party’s rights. Any failure to maintain rights to our intellectual property used in our business could adversely affect the development, functionality, and commercial value of our products. 5 GOVERNMENT REGULATION We are subject to extensive regulation, and compliance with existing or future laws and regulations may require us to incur substantial expenditures or require us to make product recalls. New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations intended to protect public health and the environment. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, we advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and of new laws or regulations restricting our right to advertise products. Our operations are also subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Trade Bureau, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, and by various state and local authorities. Such regulation covers virtually every aspect of our operations, including production facilities, marketing, pricing, labeling, packaging, advertising, water usage, waste water discharge, disposal of hazardous wastes and omissions and other matters. Violations of any of these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties being levied against us, permit revocation or modification, performance of environmental investigatory or remedial activities, voluntary or involuntary product recalls, or a cease and desist order against operations that are not in compliance. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or to affect any product recalls. These matters may have a material adverse effect on our business. IF Z TRIM’S PRODUCTS DO NOT SATISFY CERTAIN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, Z TRIM MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL OR MAY BE REQUIRED TO OBTAIN MULTIPLE LICENSES TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS. Z Trim has self-certified that all components of its products are generally recognized as safe or GRAS according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations. A GRAS designation exempts the products from the regulations of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, permitting the sale of the products anywhere in the United States without obtaining a license. Should the products lose their GRAS designation, Z Trim will be required to sell the products as feed additives by obtaining a license to sell from each individual state in which sales would occur. There is no assurance that Z Trim would be able to successfully obtain or maintain licenses in all states in which sales are expected to be made or that the cost of obtaining and maintaining these licenses would not limit its ability to sell its products. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PERIODIC LITIGATION AND OTHER REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNEXPECTED EXPENSE OF TIME AND RESOURCES. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, including litigation brought by former employees. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. WE HAVE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD IMPACT NEGATIVELY OUR ABILITY TO REPORT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ACCURATELY AND IN A TIMELY MANNER. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable reports our reputation and operating results may be harmed. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2011. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis We identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 delivered herewith. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. In connection with the period ended, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined) in Exchange Act Rules 13a – 15(c) and 15d – 15(e)). Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered in this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our common stock. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF REVENUE AND/OR PROFITABILITY. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our management team and other key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, transitions of important responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 6 Risks Relating to our Common Stock OUR STOCK NOW TRADES IN THE OTC MARKETS. Since our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Markets, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. Being a penny stock also could limit the liquidity of our common stock and limit the coverage of our stock by analysts. The OTC Markets generally provides less liquidity than Amex. Stocks trading on both the OTC Markets may be very thinly traded and highly volatile. Therefore, holders of the Company’s common stock may be unable to sell their shares at any price, whether or not such shares have been registered for resale. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common shares, significant sales of our common shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our share price to fall. Also, as a result of the Company’s withdrawal from Amex, the Company will not be required to seek, and will, generally, not seek, shareholder approval in connection with its equity offerings. THE FLUCTUATION IN OUR STOCK PRICE MAY RESULT IN A DECLINE IN THE VALUE OF YOUR INVESTMENT. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including the differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, short selling of our stock in the market, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities often are subject to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources away from our business. SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price, if any, of our securities. BRIGHTLINE (BRIGHTLINE VENTURES I, LLC AND BRIGHTLINE VENTURES I-B, LLC) BENEFICIALLY OWNS MORE THAN 72.73% OF OUR COMMON STOCK. UPON REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, THESE SHARES WILL BE GENERALLY AVAILABLE FOR RESALE IN THE PUBLIC MARKET. Brightline Ventures I, LLC (“Brightline”) presently owns the following Company securities: SECURITY Convertible into # of shares Common Stock Common Stock 4,734,045 Preferred Stock – Series I 4,395,291 Preferred Stock – Series II 3,326,697 Warrants 17,301,733 Total 29,757,766 As a result, Brightline has a significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters which require approve of our stockholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Brightline may prevent or frustrate attempts to effect a transaction or series of transactions that is in the best interest of minority shareholders. While we have no current plans with regard to any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets which would require the approval of our stockholders, the interests of Brightline may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. The above table does not include 437,380 shares purchased by Brightline Ventures I-B, LLC on March 29, 2012. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DROP UNEXPECTEDLY DUE TO SHORT SELLING OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE MARKET. Regulation SHO began on January 3, 2005 and was adopted to update short sale regulation in light of numerous market developments since short sale regulation was first adopted in 1938. We have experienced and may continue to experience unexpected declines in our stock price due to manipulation of the market by individuals who profit by short selling our common stock. Short selling occurs when an individual borrows shares from an investor through a broker and then sells those borrowed shares at the current market price. The "short seller" profits when the stock price falls because he or she can repurchase the stock at a lower price and pay back the person from whom he or she borrowed, thereby making a profit. We cannot assure you that short sellers will not continue to drive the stock price down in the future, causing decline in the value of your investment. 7 THE TRADING PRICE OF THE COMMON STOCK IS VOLATILE, WHICH COULD CAUSE THE VALUE OF AN INVESTMENT OUR SECURITIES TO DECLINE. The market price of shares of our Common Stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has in the past been highly volatile. In fiscal 2010, our common stock traded in the range of $1.95 to $0.31 per share; in fiscal 2011, our common stock traded in the range of $1.80 to $0.40 per share. In the first quarter of 2012 our stock traded in the range of $0.42 to $1.00. This volatility is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. Factors affecting potential volatility include: · developments and resolution of current litigation that we are a party to; · our cash resources and our ability to obtain additional funding; · announcements of private or public sales of securities · announcements by us or a competitor of business development or exhibition projects; · our entering into or terminating strategic business relationships; · changes in government regulations; · changes in our revenue or expense levels; · fluctuations in operating results and general economic and other external market factors · negative reports on us by security analysts; · announcements of new products or technologies by us or our competitors. The occurrence of any of these events may cause the price of the Common Stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance or financial condition of individual companies. Any broad market or industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of operating performance or prospects. THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CURRENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS RELATED TO STOCK BASED COMPENSATION HAS REDUCED AND MAY CONTINUE TO REDUCE OUR REPORTED EARNINGS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. As part of our compensation to employees, directors and consultants, we issue equity awards, primarily in the form of stock options and shares of common stock. Many of the companies within our industry and with whom we compete for skilled employees use stock-based compensation as a means to attract personnel, although not all do and many do not issue the same level of awards. As a result, the impact of the January 1, 2006 implementation of current accounting standards relating to stock based compensation may be more significant for us as compared to other companies. In addition, if we unexpectedly hire additional employees or acquire another company, the impact of the implementation of current accounting standards relating to stock based compensation may be more significant for us than previously forecasted. To the extent investors believe the costs incurred for current accounting standards relating to stock based compensation by the Company are higher than those incurred by other companies, our stock price could be negatively impacted. WE DO NOT PLAN TO PAY DIVIDENDS TO HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the Common Stock at any time. Moreover, our outstanding Series I and II Preferred Stock prohibit the payment of dividends on any capital stock without the consent of the holders of the Series I and II Preferred Stock. Accordingly, investors in our Common Stock must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of Common Stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. BECAUSE THE SEC IMPOSES ADDITIONAL SALES PRACTICE REQUIREMENTS ON BROKERS WHO DEAL IN OUR SHARES THAT ARE PENNY STOCKS, SOME BROKERS MAY BE UNWILLING TO TRADE THEM. THIS MEANS THAT YOU MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY IN RESELLING YOUR SHARES AND MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF THE SHARES TO DECLINE. Our stock is a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative, low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. These factors may result in an investor who satisfies the conditions of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act being unable or having difficulty liquidating his or her “restricted” shares purchased in this offering. 8 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 