ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Regulatory Risk Is Substantial In Our Business. Non-Compliance With Regulations Or Changes In Regulations Could Have A Significant Impact On The Conduct Of Our Business And Our Prospects, Revenues And Earnings. Our investment management and broker/dealer businesses are heavily regulated, primarily at the federal level. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses. See Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for a more complete description of these matters. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax or compliance requirements or in governmental policies could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings by, among other things, increasing expenses and reducing investor interest in certain products we offer. In response to recent scandals in the mutual fund industry regarding late trading, market timing and selective disclosure of portfolio information, various legislative and regulatory proposals are pending in or before, or have been adopted by, the SEC, the United States Congress, the legislatures in states in which we conduct operations and the various regulatory agencies that supervise our operations. Additionally, the SEC, the NASD and other regulators, as well as Congress, are investigating certain practices within the mutual fund industry. These proposals, if enacted or adopted, could have a substantial impact on the regulation, operation and distribution of mutual funds, and could adversely affect our ability to distribute and retain the assets we manage and our revenues and net income. In particular, new rules and regulations recently proposed or adopted by the SEC and NASD will place greater regulatory compliance and administrative burdens on us. For example, recently adopted rules require investment advisers and mutual funds to adopt, implement, review and administer written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws. Similarly, the public disclosure requirements applicable to mutual funds have become more stringent. We may require additional staff to satisfy these obligations, which would increase our operating expenses. Our Business Is Subject To Substantial Risk From Litigation, Regulatory Investigations And Potential Securities Laws Liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation, regulatory investigations and/or arbitration, and from time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings in the course of operating our business. The Company is exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, the NASD and other regulatory bodies. We, our subsidiaries, and/or certain of our past and present officers, have been named as parties in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings, and securities arbitrations in the past and have been subject to claims alleging violation of such laws, rules and regulations, which have resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. Currently, we are subject to several of these large matters as further described in Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” herein. Legal proceedings are subject to uncertainties, and the outcomes are difficult to predict. Consequently, unless otherwise indicated, we are unable to estimate the ultimate aggregate amounts of monetary liability or ranges of possible losses with respect to our pending litigation matters and regulatory proceedings. An adverse resolution of any current or future lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to the Company, and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, which, in turn, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management’s attention from operations. Fee Pressures Could Reduce Our Revenues And Profitability. There is a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the investment management business. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that are designed to improve mutual fund corporate governance, which could result in further downward pressure on investment advisory fees in the mutual fund industry. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will 16 be able to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. An Increasing Percentage Of Our Assets Under Management Are Distributed Through Our Wholesale Channel Which Reflects Higher Redemption Rates Than Our Traditional Advisors Channel. In recent years we have focused on expanding distribution efforts relating to our Wholesale channel. The percentage of our assets under management attributable to the non-proprietary segment of our Wholesale channel has increased from 10.4% at December 31, 2003 to 16.1% at December 31, 2005, and the percentage of our total sales represented by the non-proprietary segment of our Wholesale channel has increased from 16.5% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 43.4% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The success of sales in our Wholesale channel depends upon our maintaining strong relationships with institutional accounts, certain strategic partners and our non-proprietary sales outlets. Many of those distribution sources also offer investors competing funds that are internally or externally managed, which could limit the distribution of our products. The loss of any of these distribution channels and the inability to continue to access new distribution channels could decrease our assets under management and adversely affect our results of operations and growth. We cannot assure you that these channels and their client bases will continue to be accessible to us. The loss or diminution of the level of business we do with those providers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the non-proprietary segment of our Wholesale channel had redemption rates of 20.3% and 23.7% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, compared to redemption rates of 9.6% and 11.3% for our Advisors channel in the same periods reflecting the higher rate of transferability of investment assets in the Wholesale channel. New Regulations Restricting The Use Of “Soft Dollars” Could Result In An Increase In Our Expenses. On behalf of our mutual fund and investment advisory clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker/dealers to execute trades, and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive “soft dollar credits” from broker/dealers that we can use to defray certain of our expenses. If regulations are adopted revising or eliminating the ability of asset managers to use “soft dollars,” our operating expenses could increase. There May Be Adverse Effects On Our Revenues And Earnings If Our Funds’ Performance Declines. Success in the investment management and mutual fund businesses is dependent on the investment performance of client accounts relative to market conditions and the performance of competing funds. Good relative performance stimulates sales of the Funds’ shares and tends to keep redemptions low. Sales of the Funds’ shares in turn generate higher management fees and distribution revenues. Good relative performance also attracts institutional and separate accounts. Conversely, poor relative performance results in decreased sales, increased redemptions of the Funds’ shares and the loss of institutional and separate accounts, resulting in decreases in revenues. Failure of our Funds to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Our Revenues, Earnings And Prospects Could Be Adversely Affected If The Securities Markets Decline. Our results of operations are affected by certain economic factors, including the level of the securities markets. The existence of adverse market conditions (which is particularly material to us due to our high concentration of assets under management in the United States domestic stock market) and lack of investor confidence could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and growth prospects. Because our revenues are, to a large extent, investment management fees which are based on the value of assets under management, a decline in the value of these assets adversely affects our revenues and earnings. Our growth is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain mutual fund assets, and, in an adverse economic environment, this may prove difficult. Our growth rate has varied from year to year and there can be no assurance that the average growth rates sustained in the recent past will continue. In addition, a decline in the market value of these assets could cause our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which could also negatively impact 17 our revenues and earnings. The combination of adverse markets reducing sales and investment management fees could compound on each other and materially affect earnings. There May Be An Adverse Effect On Our Revenues And Earnings If Our Investors Remove The Assets We Manage On Short Notice. A majority of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements with the Funds that, as required by law, are terminable on 60 days’ notice. Each investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the disinterested members of each Fund’s board of directors/trustees or its shareholders, as required by law. Some of these investment management agreements may be terminated or may not be renewed, and new agreements may not be available. In addition, mutual fund investors may redeem their investments in our mutual funds at any time without any prior notice. Our investment management agreements with institutions and other non-mutual fund accounts are generally terminable upon relatively short notice. Investors can terminate their relationship with us, reduce their aggregate amount of assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. The decrease in revenues that could result from any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. Our Ability To Hire And Retain Senior Executive Management And Other Key Personnel Is Significant To Our Success And Growth. Our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior executive management and other key personnel to conduct our fund management and investment advisory business. The market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts and financial advisors is extremely competitive. Additionally, we are dependent on our financial advisors and select wholesale distributors to sell our mutual funds and other investment products. Our growth prospects will be directly affected by the quality, quantity and productivity of financial advisors we are able to successfully recruit and retain. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. We Could Experience Adverse Effects On Our Revenues, Profits And Market Share Due To Strong Competition From Numerous And Sometimes Larger Companies. We compete with stock brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, Internet investment sites, and other financial institutions and individual registered investment advisers. Many of these companies not only offer mutual fund investments and services, but also offer an ever-increasing number of other financial products and services. Many of our competitors have more products and product lines, services and brand recognition and may also have substantially greater assets under management. Many larger mutual fund complexes have developed relationships with brokerage houses with large distribution networks, which may enable those fund complexes to reach broader client bases. In recent years, there has been a trend of consolidation in the mutual fund industry resulting in stronger competitors with greater financial resources than us. There has also been a trend toward online Internet financial services. If existing or potential customers decide to invest with our competitors instead of with us, our market share, revenues and income could decline. The Terms Of Our Credit Facility Impose Restrictions On Our Operations That May Adversely Impact Our Prospects And The Operations Of Our Business. There are no assurances we will be able to raise additional capital if needed, which could negatively impact our liquidity, prospects and operations. We have entered into a three-year revolving credit facility with various lenders providing for total loans of $200.0 million. Under this facility, the lenders may, at their option upon our request, expand the facility to $300.0 million. In August 2000, we also began using money market loans, which function similarly to commercial paper. At February 23, 2006, there was no balance outstanding under either the revolving credit facility or the money market loan program. The terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility and the money market loans impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, merge, sell assets, pay dividends and create or incur liens. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants set forth in our credit facility could be affected by events beyond our 18 control, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve operating results that will comply with such terms and conditions, a breach of which could result in a default under our credit facility. In the event of a default, the banks could elect to declare the outstanding principal amount of our credit facility, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable. Our ability to meet our cash needs and satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, asset values, perception of our creditworthiness and, indirectly, the market value of our stock. These factors will be affected by prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that borrowings from our existing credit facility, money market loans and/or cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient funds to finance our business plans, meet our operating expenses and service our debt obligations as they become due. However, in the event that we require additional capital, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or refinance our credit facility upon its maturity or on favorable terms. If we are unable to raise capital or obtain financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plan. Systems Failure May Disrupt Our Business And Result In Financial Loss And Liability To Our Clients. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our mutual fund transfer agency system maintained by a third-party service provider. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems of third parties. If any of these systems do not function properly, we could suffer financial loss, business disruption, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. If our systems are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to expand could be affected. Although we have back-up systems in place, we cannot be sure that any systems failure or interruption, whether caused by a fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise will not occur, or that back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any failure or interruption will be adequate. Potential Misuse Of Funds And Information In The Possession Of Our Employees And/Or Advisors Could Result In Liability To Our Clients And Subject Us To Regulatory Sanctions. Our financial advisors handle a significant amount of funds for our clients as well as financial and personal information. Although we have implemented a system of controls to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of funds and information, there can be no assurance that our controls will be adequate or that a taking or misuse by our employees or financial advisors can be prevented. We could be liable in the event of a taking or misuse by our employees or financial advisors and we could also be subject to regulatory sanctions. Although we believe that we have adequately insured against these risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be maintained or that it will be adequate to meet any liability. There Are No Assurances That We Will Pay Future Dividends Which Could Adversely Affect Our Stock Price. The Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc. Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors”) currently intends to continue to declare quarterly dividends on our Class A common stock; however, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Any determination as to the payment of dividends, as well as the level of such dividends, will depend on, among other things, general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans, our financial results and condition, and contractual, legal, and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us or our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and, as such, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide us with cash. There can be no assurance that the current quarterly dividend level will be maintained or that we will pay any dividends in any future period(s). Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect our stock price. 19 Our Stockholders Rights Plan Could Deter Takeover Attempts Which Some Of Our Stockholders May Believe To Be In Their Best Interest. Under certain conditions, the rights under our stockholders rights plan entitle the holders of such rights to receive shares of our Class A common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. The rights are attached to each share of our outstanding Class A common stock and generally are exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the voting power represented by our Class A common stock. Our stockholders rights plan could impede the completion of a merger, tender offer, or other takeover attempt even though some or a majority of our stockholders might believe that a merger, tender offer or takeover is in their best interests, and even if such a transaction could result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares of our stock over the then current market price of our stock. Provisions Of Our Organizational Documents Could Deter Takeover Attempts Which Some Of Our Stockholders May Believe To Be In Their Best Interest. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority, without action by our stockholders, to fix certain terms and issue shares of our Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share. Actions of our Board of Directors pursuant to this authority may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Other provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and in our Bylaws impose procedural and other requirements that could be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, including replacing incumbent directors. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which is to serve for a staggered three-year term after the initial classification and election, and incumbent directors may not be removed without cause, all of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. In addition, as a Delaware corporation we are subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. With certain exceptions, section 203 imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. Our Holding Company Structure Results In Structural Subordination And May Affect Our Ability To Fund Our Operations And Make Payments On Our Debt. We are a holding company and, accordingly, substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to service our debt, including $200 million of our senior notes, are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of our debt to participate in those assets, would be effectively subordinated to the claims of those subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be effectively subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. 20 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 