ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our Revenues, Earnings And Prospects Could Be Adversely Affected If The Securities Markets Decline. Our results of operations are affected by certain economic factors, including the level of the securities markets. The on-going existence of adverse market conditions, which is particularly material to us due to our high concentration of assets under management in the United States domestic stock market, and lack of investor confidence could result in investors further withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rate of investment, either of which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and growth prospects to a greater extent. Because our revenues are, to a large extent, investment management fees that are based on the value of assets under management, a decline in the value of these assets adversely affects our revenues and earnings. Our growth is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain mutual fund assets, and, in an adverse economic environment, this may prove more difficult. Our growth rate has varied from year to year and there can be no assurance that the average growth rates sustained in recent years will continue. Declines in the securities markets could significantly reduce future revenues and earnings. In addition, a decline in the market value of these assets could cause our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which could also negatively impact our revenues and earnings. The combination of adverse markets reducing sales and investment management fees could compound on each other and materially affect earnings. There May Be Adverse Effects On Our Revenues And Earnings If Our Funds' Performance Declines. Success in the investment management and mutual fund businesses is dependent on the investment performance of client accounts relative to market conditions and the performance of competing funds. Good relative performance stimulates sales of the Funds' shares and tends to keep redemptions low. Sales of the Funds' shares in turn generate higher management fees and distribution revenues. Good relative performance also attracts institutional and separate accounts. Conversely, poor relative performance results in decreased sales, increased redemptions of the Funds' shares and the loss of institutional and separate accounts, resulting in decreases in revenues. Failure of our Funds to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Our Financial Advisors Are Classified As Independent Contractors, And Changes To Their Classification May Increase Our Operating Expenses. From time to time, various legislative or regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal or state levels to change the status of independent contractors' classification to employees for either employment tax purposes (withholding, social security, Medicare and unemployment taxes) or other benefits available to employees. Currently, most individuals are classified as employees or independent contractors for employment tax purposes based on 20 "common law" factors, rather than any definition found in the Internal Revenue Code or Treasury regulations. We classify the majority of our financial advisors as independent contractors for all purposes, including employment tax and employee 13 Table of Contents benefit purposes. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the independent contractor/employee classification of those financial advisors currently doing business with us. The costs associated with potential changes, if any, with respect to these independent contractor classifications could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including our results of operations and financial condition. See Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." Our Business Is Subject To Substantial Risk From Litigation, Regulatory Investigations And Potential Securities Laws Liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of litigation, regulatory investigations and/or arbitration, and from time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings in the course of operating our business. The Company is exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, FINRA and other regulatory bodies. We, our subsidiaries, and/or certain of our past and present officers, have been named as parties in legal actions, regulatory investigations and proceedings, and securities arbitrations in the past and have been subject to claims alleging violation of such laws, rules and regulations, which have resulted in the payment of fines and settlements. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit, legal or regulatory proceeding or claim against us could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to the Company, and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations, which, in turn, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends. In addition to these financial costs and risks, the defense of litigation or arbitration may divert resources and management's attention from operations. See Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." Regulatory Risk Is Substantial In Our Business And Non-Compliance With Regulations, Or Changes In Regulations, Could Have A Significant Impact On The Conduct Of Our Business And Our Prospects, Revenues And Earnings. Our investment advisory and broker/dealer businesses are heavily regulated, primarily at the federal level. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could result in sanctions being levied against us, including fines and censures, suspension or expulsion from a certain jurisdiction or market, or the revocation of licenses. Non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations could also adversely affect our reputation, prospects, revenues and earnings. In addition, changes in current legal, regulatory, accounting, tax or compliance requirements or in governmental policies could adversely affect our operations, revenues and earnings by, among other things, increasing expenses and reducing investor interest in certain products we offer. Additionally, our profitability could be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities generally, including changes to the laws governing state and federal taxation. In recent years, allegations of late trading, market timing and selective disclosure of portfolio information in the mutual fund industry have prompted various legislative and regulatory proposals, some of which have been adopted by the SEC, the United States Congress, the legislatures in states in which we conduct operations and the various regulatory agencies that supervise our operations. In particular, new rules and regulations adopted by the SEC and FINRA place greater regulatory compliance and administrative burdens on us and could have a substantial impact on the regulation, operation and distribution of mutual funds and variable products, and could adversely affect our ability to distribute and retain the assets we manage and our revenues and net income. For example, recently adopted rules require investment advisers and mutual funds to adopt, implement, review and administer written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws. Similarly, public disclosure requirements applicable to mutual funds have become more stringent. We may require additional staff to satisfy these obligations, which would increase our operating expenses. An Increasing Percentage Of Our Assets Under Management Are Distributed Through Our Wholesale Channel, Which Has Higher Redemption Rates Than Our Traditional Advisors Channel. In recent years, we have focused on expanding distribution efforts relating to our Wholesale channel. The percentage of our assets under management in the Wholesale channel has increased from 10.4% at December 31, 2003 to 14 Table of Contents 47.0% at December 31, 2009, and the percentage of our total sales represented by the Wholesale channel has increased from 16.5% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 75.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The success of sales in our Wholesale channel depends upon our maintaining strong relationships with institutional accounts, certain strategic partners and our third party distributors. Many of those distribution sources also offer investors competing funds that are internally or externally managed, which could limit the distribution of our products. The loss of any of these distribution channels and the inability to continue to access new distribution channels could decrease our assets under management and adversely affect our results of operations and growth. There are no assurances that these channels and their client bases will continue to be accessible to us. The loss or diminution of the level of business we do with those providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, especially with the high concentration of assets in certain funds in this channel, namely the Asset Strategy fund. In addition, the Wholesale channel had redemption rates of 24.0% and 35.5% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, compared to redemption rates of 8.4% and 8.9% for our Advisors channel in the same periods, reflecting the higher rate of transferability of investment assets in the Wholesale channel. There May Be An Adverse Effect On Our Revenues And Earnings If Our Investors Redeem The Assets We Manage On Short Notice. Mutual fund investors may redeem their investments in our mutual funds at any time without any prior notice. Additionally, our investment management agreements with institutions and other non-mutual fund accounts are generally terminable upon relatively short notice. Investors can terminate their relationship with us, reduce their aggregate amount of assets under management, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. The ability of our investors to accomplish this on short notice has increased materially due to the growth of assets in our Wholesale channel, and with the high concentration of assets in certain funds in this channel, including the Asset Strategy fund. The decrease in revenues that could result from any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. There Are No Assurances That We Will Pay Future Dividends, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Stock Price. The Waddell & Reed Financial, Inc. Board of Directors (the "Board of Directors") currently intends to continue to declare quarterly dividends on our Class A common stock (our "common stock"); however, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Any determination as to the payment of dividends, as well as the level of such dividends, will depend on, among other things, general economic and business conditions, our strategic plans, our financial results and condition, and contractual, legal, and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us or our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and, as such, our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of our subsidiaries to provide us with cash. There can be no assurance that the current quarterly dividend level will be maintained or that we will pay any dividends in any future period(s). Any change in the level of our dividends or the suspension of the payment thereof could adversely affect our stock price. Our Ability To Hire And Retain Senior Executive Management And Other Key Personnel Is Significant To Our Success And Growth. Our continued success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior executive management and other key personnel to conduct our broker/dealer, fund management and investment advisory businesses. The market for qualified fund managers, investment analysts and financial advisors is extremely competitive. Additionally, we are dependent on our financial advisors and select wholesale distributors to sell our mutual funds and other investment products. Our growth prospects will be directly affected by the quality, quantity and productivity of financial advisors we are able to successfully recruit and retain. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. We Have Substantial Intangibles On Our Balance Sheet, And Any Impairment Of Our Intangibles Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations And Financial Position. At December 31, 2009, our total assets were approximately $983.4 million, of which approximately $221.2 million, or 22%, consisted of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. We complete an ongoing review of goodwill and intangible assets for 15 Table of Contents impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or a change in circumstances warrant. Important factors in determining whether an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets might exist include significant continued underperformance compared to peers, the likelihood of termination or non-renewal of a mutual fund advisory or subadvisory contract or substantial changes in revenues earned from such contracts, significant changes in our business and products, material and ongoing negative industry or economic trends, or other factors specific to each asset or subsidiary being tested. Because of the significance of goodwill and other intangibles to our consolidated balance sheets, the annual impairment analysis is critical. Any changes in key assumptions about our business and our prospects, or changes in market conditions or other externalities, could result in an impairment charge. Any such charge could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position. There May Be Adverse Effects On Our Business And Earnings Upon The Termination Of, Or Failure To Renew, Certain Agreements. A majority of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements with the Funds that, as required by law, are terminable on 60 days' notice. Each investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the disinterested members of each Fund's board of directors/trustees or its shareholders, as required by law. Additionally, our investment management agreements provide for automatic termination in the event of assignment, which includes a change of control, without the consent of our clients and, in the case of the Funds, approval of the Funds' board of directors/trustees and shareholders to continue the agreements. There can be no assurances that our clients will consent to any assignment of our investment management agreements, or that those and other contracts will not be terminated or will be renewed on favorable terms, if at all, at their expiration and new agreements may not be available. See "Business – Distribution Channels – Wholesale Channel, Institutional Channel." The decrease in revenues that could result from any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business and earnings. There Is No Assurance That New Information Systems Will be Implemented Successfully. A number of the Company's key information technology systems were developed solely to handle the Company's particular information technology infrastructure. The Company is in the process of evaluating and implementing new information technology and systems that it believes could facilitate and improve our core businesses and our productivity. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in implementing the new information technology and systems or that their implementation will be completed in a timely or cost effective manner. Failure to implement or maintain adequate information technology infrastructure could impede our ability to support business growth. Systems Failure May Disrupt Our Business And Result In Financial Loss And Liability To Our Clients. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data processing systems, and other communications and information systems, including our mutual fund transfer agency system maintained by a third-party service provider. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems of third parties. If any of these systems do not function properly, we could suffer financial loss, business disruption, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. If our systems are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to expand could be affected. Although we have back-up systems in place, we cannot be sure that any systems failure or interruption, whether caused by a fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, acts of terrorism or war or otherwise will not occur, or that back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any failure or interruption will be adequate. Regulations Restricting The Use Of "Soft Dollars" Could Result In An Increase In Our Expenses. On behalf of our mutual fund and investment advisory clients, we make decisions to buy and sell securities for each portfolio, select broker/dealers to execute trades, and negotiate brokerage commission rates. In connection with these transactions, we may receive "soft dollar credits" from broker/dealers that we can use to defray certain of our expenses. If regulations are adopted eliminating the ability of asset managers to use "soft dollars," our operating expenses could increase. 16 Table of Contents Fee Pressures Could Reduce Our Revenues And Profitability. There is a trend toward lower fees in some segments of the investment management business. In addition, the SEC has adopted rules that are designed to improve mutual fund corporate governance, which could result in further downward pressure on investment advisory fees in the mutual fund industry. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We Could Experience Adverse Effects On Our Revenues, Profits And Market Share Due To Strong Competition From Numerous And Sometimes Larger Companies. We compete with stock brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, Internet investment sites, and other financial institutions and individual registered investment advisers. Many of these companies not only offer mutual fund investments and services, but also offer an ever-increasing number of other financial products and services. Many of our competitors have more products and product lines, services and brand recognition and may also have substantially greater assets under management. Many larger mutual fund complexes have developed more extensive relationships with brokerage houses with large distribution networks, which may enable those fund complexes to reach broader client bases. In recent years, there has been a trend of consolidation in the mutual fund industry resulting in stronger competitors with greater financial resources than us. There has also been a trend toward online Internet financial services. If existing or potential customers decide to invest with our competitors instead of with us, our market share, revenues and income could decline. The Terms Of Our Credit Facility Impose Restrictions On Our Operations That May Adversely Impact Our Prospects And The Operations Of Our Business. There are no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed, which could negatively impact our liquidity, prospects and operations. We have entered into a 364-day revolving credit facility with various lenders providing for total loans of $125.0 million. Under this facility, the lenders may, at their option upon our request, expand the facility to $200.0 million. At February 18, 2010, there was no balance outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The terms and conditions of our revolving credit facility and the money market loans impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, merge, sell assets, pay dividends and create or incur liens. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants set forth in our credit facility could be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve operating results that will comply with such terms and conditions, a breach of which could result in a default under our credit facility. In the event of a default, the banks could elect to declare the outstanding principal amount of our credit facility, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable. Our ability to meet our cash needs and satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, asset values, the perception of our creditworthiness and, indirectly, the market value of our stock. These factors will be affected by prevailing economic, financial and business conditions and other circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that any borrowings from our existing credit facility, money market loans and/or cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient funds to finance our business plans, meet our operating expenses and service our debt obligations as they become due. However, in the event that we require additional capital, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such capital when needed or on satisfactory terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or refinance our credit facility upon its maturity or on favorable terms. If we are unable to raise capital or obtain financing, we may be forced to incur unanticipated costs or revise our business plan. Potential Misuse Of Funds And Information In The Possession Of Our Employees And/Or Advisors Could Result In Liability To Our Clients, Subject Us To Regulatory Sanctions Or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Revenues and Profitability. Our business is based on the trust and confidence of our clients, for whom our financial advisors handle a significant amount of funds, as well as financial and personal information. Although we have implemented a system of internal controls to minimize the risk of fraudulent taking or misuse of 17 Table of Contents funds and information, there can be no assurance that our controls will be adequate or that a taking or misuse by our employees or financial advisors can be prevented. We could be liable in the event of a taking or misuse by our employees or financial advisors and we could also be subject to regulatory sanctions. Although we believe that we have adequately insured against these risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be maintained or that it will be adequate to meet any liability. Any damage to the trust and confidence placed in us by our clients may cause assets under management to decline, which could adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our Stockholders Rights Plan Could Deter Takeover Attempts, Which Some Of Our Stockholders May Believe To Be In Their Best Interest. Under certain conditions, the rights under our stockholders rights plan entitle the holders of such rights to receive shares of our common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. The rights are attached to each share of our outstanding common stock and generally are exercisable only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the voting power represented by our common stock. Our stockholders rights plan could impede the completion of a merger, tender offer, or other takeover attempt even though some or a majority of our stockholders might believe that a merger, tender offer or takeover is in their best interests, and even if such a transaction could result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares of our stock over the then current market price of our stock. Provisions Of Our Organizational Documents Could Deter Takeover Attempts, Which Some Of Our Stockholders May Believe To Be In Their Best Interest. Under our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority, without action by our stockholders, to fix certain terms and issue shares of our Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share. Actions of our Board of Directors pursuant to this authority may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of the Company. Other provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and in our Bylaws impose procedural and other requirements that could be deemed to have anti-takeover effects, including replacing incumbent directors. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which is to serve for a staggered three-year term after the initial classification and election, and incumbent directors may not be removed without cause, all of which may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors. In addition, as a Delaware corporation we are subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. With certain exceptions, section 203 imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our voting stock. Our Holding Company Structure Results In Structural Subordination And May Affect Our Ability To Fund Our Operations And Make Payments On Our Debt. We are a holding company and, accordingly, substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to service our debt, including $200 million of our senior notes, are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. In addition, any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. Payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. Our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of our debt to participate in those assets, would be effectively subordinated to the claims of those subsidiaries' creditors, including trade creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be effectively subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 