1A. Risk Factors 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 18 Item 2. Properties 18 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 19 Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 19 Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 20 Item 6. Selected Financial Data 21 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 22 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 31 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 31 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 32 Item 9A. Control Procedures 32 Item 9B. Other Information 32 Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant 33 Item 11. Executive Compensation 36 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 43 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 46 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 47 Part IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 48 Index to Financial Statements F-1 Part I. Item 1. BUSINESS. American Bank Note Holographics, Inc. (“ABNH” or the “Company”) originates, produces, markets and sells holograms and products incorporating holograms. The Company’s products are used primarily in security applications including authentication of transaction cards, identity documents, documents of value and various consumer products. The Company operates in one reportable industry segment. Our ability to create distinctive, secure optically variable devices, to reproduce them with high quality and to distribute them securely has enabled us to become a market leader in security holography. Our products are used by over 200 companies worldwide, including MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Discover, Diners Club, Sears, Nordstrom, Quaker State, Sony, Nike, Eli Lilly, and Janssen-Cilag as well as the United States government and other governments and companies. We also produce non-secure holograms for design and promotional applications. We believe we have a number of strengths that provide us with a competitive advantage in the security sector of the holography industry, including: • our reputation as a quality supplier of secure holograms with over 20 years of experience in the industry, • our expertise in holographic technology and production techniques which enables us to offer effective security solutions for a variety of end use markets and application environments, • our secure production and distribution processes and capabilities which qualify us to meet the stringent requirements of security conscious customers, • our origination laboratories, which enable us to produce distinctive holograms with a variety of security features that make them difficult to counterfeit, and • our integrated manufacturing facilities, which allow us to mass produce our products in accordance with the highest quality standards. The Holography Industry A hologram is a unique type of image that is created through the diffraction of light at pre-determined angles to create various visual effects. Holograms are created with special laser configurations and do not use ink, thereby enabling a holographic image to be easily distinguished from a traditionally printed or copied image. When a hologram is viewed from different angles, the viewer is able to see features such as depth and movement, which would not typically be possible in most two-dimensional images. Holograms can also include information that is detectable only with the aid of special devices. The holography industry is divided into two main sectors: security and non-security. Security The security sector of the holography industry includes products that protect and authenticate transaction cards, documents of value, consumer and industrial products and identification cards. Using holography, and other techniques, we can develop a unique holographic security device for each customer with which to identify and protect the customer’s products. Holograms provide the following major benefits as security devices: 3 • difficult to copy - holograms cannot be copied with conventional copying equipment such as color copiers or scanners. The unique properties and high resolution of a security hologram make it extremely difficult to replicate even with specialized equipment and expertise. • overt features - the unique visual aspects of a hologram are easily recognizable, making authentication of products and documents practical for the general public without special machinery, equipment or training. Overt features that we offer include: • 3-D Imagery - an image that has three dimensions and gives the illusion of depth or varying distances. • TrueColor- a holographic image that gives the illusion of color. • Parallax - images created on different planes that move in relation to one another when viewed from different angles. • Secondary Flip Image - an image that appears and disappears when viewed at certain angles. • Diffractive Mercurial - a bright, sharp, color shifting two-dimensional image. • Animation - a two or three-dimensional image that gives the illusion of motion. • covert features - hidden features that can only be detected with high-powered microscopes or specialized readers can be incorporated into a hologram to make it more difficult to counterfeit, facilitate verification in the field and support forensic investigation. Covert features that we offer include: • Hidden Latent Image - a hidden element within a holographic image that is machine-readable only with a proprietary reader. • HoloScan™ - ABNH’s hidden machine readable code within a holographic image that can be read with special readers. • Micro Imagery - text or a logo within a holographic image that is visible only under magnification. • Nano Imagery - microscopic text or a logo within a holographic image that is visible only with high-powered magnification. • physical features - features that can be combined with holographic materials to increase the security of the holographic product. Physical features that we offer include: • HoloMagTM – an integrated hologram and magnetic stripe. • Micro-demetallization - - a feature whereby a designed portion of the vacuum deposited aluminum materials are removed from the holographic film to create additional unique features that can be used to differentiate and authenticate the materials. This can be used to create see through screens, additional micro text in the metallization layer, and images that are only visible under magnification. • Tamper Apparent - - an invisible feature used in labels which when combined with the holographic image will act as a self destructive layer and produce a predictable release pattern that indicates that a product has been tampered with or altered. This release pattern can be in the form of a customized or generic design. 4 • Taggants – unique features which are added during the manufacturing process to the holographic films or coatings that are verifiable by specialized equipment. The security sector of the holography industry addresses concerns relating to counterfeiting, diversion, tampering and fraud. The cost of the hologram is generally relatively small compared to the value of the item being protected and the risk of loss. Consequently, customers typically select suppliers primarily based on the effectiveness of their security solutions, quality, reliability and price. Our research, product development, marketing and sales activities are primarily focused on the security sector of the holography industry. We offer a diverse set of security, authentication and design features. Based on customer specific needs and applications, we can combine these techniques creating a unique set of effects in a well-constructed and effective holographic security product. Non-Security The non-security sector of the holography industry includes design, packaging and other decorative applications. The unique visual appeal of holograms makes them attractive for use on consumer products. Holograms are used to enhance the design of a wide variety of products including greeting cards, decorative clothing, point-of-purchase displays, and for other promotional uses. Holograms are also used for packaging of food and other products. These holograms are generally used on consumer product packaging for their eye-catching appeal, including packaging for candy, beer, toothpaste, soft drinks and other consumer products. Non-secure holograms are generally not as complex, secure or proprietary as security holograms. Since there are more companies capable of producing non-secure holograms than there are qualified to produce and market security holograms, the competition is more intense in the non-security sector, and the margins are typically lower than in the security market. Customers in the non-security sector of the holographic industry typically distinguish between suppliers primarily based upon price, quality and production capacity. Markets and Products We have five target markets, and we market various products to meet the needs of these markets: Transaction Cards. In the early 1980’s, we began marketing our secure holograms for use on transaction cards and, as a result, helped to create and expand the security sector of the holography market. Since that time, holograms have been established as an important fraud prevention device on transaction cards. They are also commonly used to enhance the brand image of a transaction card issuer. Our products include: Holographic Hot-Stamp Patch. Our largest source of revenue since our inception has been security holograms embossed into hot-stamp foil, for transaction card authentication. Holographic hot-stamp patches can also enhance the design and branding of a card. Our customers for this product include the issuers or manufacturers of MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Diners Club, Sears and various other retail and payment cards. We are the market leader in this segment and have developed a secure, global distribution system for secure holograms to the payment card industry. HoloMagTM. HoloMag is an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. HoloMag significantly enhances the security of a card with overt, covert and machine readable security features. HoloMag also supports the branding objectives of card issuers with attractive imagery on the magnetic stripe while freeing up space on the front of cards. 5 HoloCardTM. HoloCard incorporates a hologram on a card’s entire face, creating a customized marketing tool and a counterfeit deterrent. A full-faced hologram can support brand recognition, product enhancement campaigns, customer retention and overall product differentiation efforts. Identification Documents. We provide secure holographic laminates and patches for identity documents such as national ID cards, passports, government credentials, military credentials and drivers’ licenses. We have patents on demetallized holograms which are transparent and used to see printed information under the holograms. We believe there are significant security advantages for demetallized holograms used on ID cards and other documents. We currently supply demetallized laminates for certain secure U.S. government credentials as well as national IDs for certain foreign countries. We believe there is a need to improve the security of many identity documents used in the United States and other countries, and we are proposing security holograms as a component of the security enhancements that are being considered by major issuers of identification documents. Product Authentication and Security Packaging. The use of holograms for product authentication and security packaging is driven by concerns regarding counterfeiting, piracy, pilfering, diversion and other infractions that can result in lost sales, lost goodwill and product liability claims. Holograms are used as authentication devices in, among others, pharmaceuticals, licensed consumer products and high value consumer and industrial products. Product authentication holograms are either machine or hand-applied to individual products. A holographic label that is tampered with can become permanently damaged, leaving a visible footprint on the product. Our products for this market segment include: Holographic Labels. Our pressure-sensitive label is available with a broad array of authenticating features such as demetallizing, latent imagery, machine readability and other overt and covert features. By combining multiple security techniques, we achieve higher levels of security and make the entire product or package easier to authenticate and difficult to simulate. HoloSealTM. HoloSeal integrates several key security features into one innovative device. A high security hologram, customized tamper-apparent break pattern, black light verification system and machine-readable embedded code are all features of this security label. In addition, HoloSeal can be manufactured to be transparent or semi-transparent so that printed regulatory or marketing copy can be seen through the hologram. HoloCapTM. HoloCap is ABNH’s innovative approach to sealing bottles or containers with a higher level of security. Utilizing an induction seal process, this application provides for authentication, tamper-resistance and branding. A holographic layer becomes part of the seal itself. HoloCap can be combined with other security features to create an effective approach for the security needs of a wide range of sealed products. Holographic Shrink Sleeves. ABNH has developed a heat-shrink seal with an integrated holographic stripe that can be applied to the lids of bottles to deter product fraud and tampering. By including overt and covert security features within the hologram, a customized tamper-apparent break pattern and an embedded black light verification system, ABNH’s holographic shrink sleeves provide manufacturers of bottled goods with a tool to combat criminals that, at the same time, can be easily integrated into a customer’s existing manufacturing operations. Documents of Value. Concerns over counterfeiting and copying have led to an increased use of holograms produced by international suppliers for international markets for currency, checks, gift certificates, tax stamps and other financial instruments. While this market may provide a future growth opportunity for the Company, we have had minimal sales in this market to date. Holographic products for 6 paper documents of value include: Holographic Thread. A holographic thread is a security device made up of a narrow-strip hologram, approximately 2-5 millimeters wide, and is typically incorporated into the paper substrate at the security paper mill. The hologram is often partially embedded into the paper creating a window or serpentine-thread. This holographic product offers both visual and covert security features and helps raise the recognition and perceived value of the document it is embedded into. We produce holographic material for security threads with our proprietary process, which we believe provides significant advantages for brighter and more durable holographic threads compared to other methods of holographic replication. Holographic Ribbons. A holographic ribbon is an anti-counterfeiting device that can be used on documents of value such as checks and currency. The system is comprised of a narrow strip hologram made of hot-stamp foil and slit into ribbons that are applied on security paper by either the paper maker or the printer. Holographic Patch. A holographic patch is created by embossing a hologram into hot-stamp foil, and is used for authenticating currency and other secure documents. It is machine applied for registered placement and quality. Depending on the design of the document, patches can be created to meet specific size, shape, creative and security requirements. A holographic patch is applied with heat and pressure forming a distinctly recognizable, security component of the document. Commercial. We also produce holographic imagery for decorative and promotional purposes. Our products for this market include pressure sensitive labels with a rich array of designs and wide web holographic patterns for flexible packaging applications. Strategy Protect and Enhance Our Position in Our Core Transaction Card Business. We hold a leadership position in the market for holograms on transaction cards as a result of our relationships with leading transaction card companies and many of the major security card manufacturers. We intend to maintain our leadership position in the card industry and grow through excellent customer service and the distribution of new products that address the security needs and design objectives of this market. Focus Sales and Marketing. We have narrowed the focus of our sales and marketing efforts to those specific applications within our target markets in which we can establish and sustain competitive advantages through a combination of product differentiation, intellectual property and market position. Broaden and Enhance Our Security Offerings. We are developing better security solutions for our target markets which incorporate innovative applications of holography and other complementary technologies. Control Costs. We have invested in and intend to continue to invest in more efficient operations and prudently manage our expenses to strengthen our competitive position and enhance profitability. Strengthen Operational Capabilities. We have made significant investments in our facilities and our manufacturing capabilities and intend to continue to invest in enhancing our production and operational capabilities to broaden our product range, improve the products and services we provide to our customers, become more vertically integrated in our manufacturing operations and to gain operational efficiencies. Production Processes We are one of the most experienced security production companies in the holographic industry. Our new facility in Robbinsville, New Jersey combines the operations that were previously conducted in our 7 facilities in Elmsford, New York and Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania while expanding and broadening our production capabilities. In this facility, we operate a holographic design studio, six holographic origination laboratories, a recombining operation, electroforming, plate making, eighteen mass replication lines, converting and finishing operations as well as extensive quality control and security procedures. Additionally we have high security warehouse and shipping and receiving areas. Our production process is integrated to handle most aspects of production, including materials sourcing, processing, finishing, packaging, storage and logistics. We generally design and originate our own holograms in our facility in Robbinsville New Jersey. We subcontract certain production functions or products, including HoloMag, to third parties. The production process for holograms produced by the Company consists of the following steps: Design The first step of the production process is the design of the hologram. In our art department, our experienced personnel work with the customer to develop a conceptual design that incorporates the necessary features, both security and non-security, to satisfy the customer’s requirements. Origination After the design has been completed, various laser-ready components (magnetic disc, three-dimensional sculpture, flat art, etc., referred to as “information”) are delivered to our holographic origination studios. The conversion from information to hologram is based on our ability to record light in an organized format. Coherent light, which is delivered by a laser, is best understood as light, which has one wavelength of the visible spectrum and possesses a high degree of organization. The coherent light is split into two beams (the object beam and the reference beam) directed toward photo-resist treated glass. The object beam is interfered with by the information before continuing its travel toward the photo-resist treated glass. The reference beam is not interfered with and travels directly toward the photo-resist treated glass. The object beam then interferes with the reference beam, creating an interference pattern, which is recorded on the light sensitive photo-resist glass. After developing the photo-resist glass, the film is re-illuminated approximating the original angle(s) of the reference beam. The resulting interference pattern within the film reflects some of the light, striking it into a re-creation of the pattern of light that originally came from the object beam, due to a property of light called diffraction. The reflected light, now organized and containing all information that the object beam once carried, allows the viewer to see all of the information in three dimensions, true color or with other desired effects. There are less complex methods of creating a hologram origination than the process described above. However, in our opinion, the above process produces the clarity, depth perception, movement and mass replication properties that are essential components of our secure holograms. We believe that our largest competitors in the security sector may use similar processes among others. Plate Making Once the origination process is completed, a plate is created in order to permit mass production. The “one-up” image is “step and repeated” to a pre-determined size with multiple identical images recorded on a photo-resist glass. We have designed and built a proprietary step and repeat process to create very precise plates for mass production of tightly registered images. The glass is then converted to a production plate in an electrolytic process where nickel is grown on the surface of the glass. Nickel is used because its molecular nature allows for an exact transfer of the origination to the production plate. We believe that our plate making process is an important component of our ability to mass-produce our 8 secure holograms with high precision. The electrolytic process creates different “generations” of plates prior to the production phase. Each generation, identical to the last, creates a more wear resistant plate for use in a mass production environment, thereby extending the useful life of the plate. The production plate will have varying degrees of hardness, depending upon the processes used in production. Mass Production Manufacturing specifications are determined in collaboration with the customer. We typically enter into production planning with the customer where drawings and overall specifications are written and distributed to the various production and quality control departments. We employ three methods of mass-production of holograms. Hard embossing transfers images to an aluminum foil/polyester substrate through heat and pressure. Heat and pressure on the holographic plate force the holographic image into the foil, which is then converted into the final product. Soft or compliant embossing permits embossing into pre-metallized and other films and allows for embossing on wider-web materials. The other method of mass production we employ is casting. We developed a proprietary casting method involving ultraviolet curing, which we refer to as In-Situ Polymeric Replication. Using this method, a polymer is transferred to a substrate (polyester, polypropylene, etc.) which is then put in contact with the holographic plate so that holographic imagery is replicated. The material is then metallized using a vacuum deposition process. Finishing for each of these methods may include some combination of metallization, demetallization, application of adhesive, magnetic coating, slitting, die-cutting, lamination and custom numbering. The completed holographic material may then be applied to the customer’s product. We perform the above processes through a combination of our internal production resources and outside subcontractors. Procurement of Key Materials and Products We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our products, and subcontract certain production functions or products from third parties some of which are sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply contracts with our suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis. In the case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc., with whom we have a supply contract. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors become unwilling or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our inability to obtain key product components or to have certain processes performed on our behalf could cause delays or reduce product shipments, which could cause our relationship with customers to suffer and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Quality Through an extensive quality assurance program, we continually make improvements to our processes through the use of an effective and efficient business management system. In 2005, we moved and consolidated our facilities from Elmsford, New York and Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into a new facility in Robbinsville, New Jersey. (See “Manufacturing Facilities” below and “Item 2. Properties”). We began the ISO 9001-2000 certification process for this facility during 2005. 9 Information Technology We have implemented an integrated enterprise resource planning system that provides information for management decision making. We made improvements to this system in 2005 and we intend to make additional improvements in 2006. Research and Product Development We have devoted significant attention to research and product development to continue to enhance our origination, replication and mass production capabilities as well as the features and performance of our products. Our research and development has enabled us to create new technologies and proprietary production processes and to deliver innovative products to the marketplace. We intend to continue to make on-going investments in research and development in order to: • Develop better solutions for our customers’ problems. • Create features which differentiate our products from those of our competitors. • Develop and improve processing techniques to improve the quality and reduce the costs of our products. Manufacturing Facilities On December 14, 2004, we entered into agreements to lease a 134,000 square foot modern manufacturing and office building in Robbinsville, New Jersey. During 2005, substantial construction was completed within this facility to meet our specialized operational and security requirements and this facility has become the site for our primary operations. The new facility provides substantial room for expansion as we consolidated our operations that were conducted within a 58,000 square foot facility in Elmsford, New York and a 30,000 square foot facility in Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania into the new facility. We are currently evaluating the possible use of the Huntingdon Valley facility for certain manufacturing and secure storage. We have also acquired and installed additional equipment and technology in the Robbinsville facility in order to broaden our capabilities to serve our target customers, expand capacity, become more vertically integrated and improve efficiency. See “Item 2. Properties.” Sales and Marketing In 2005, we provided holographic products to over 200 customers worldwide. The majority of these customers are manufacturers of secure transaction cards. We are the exclusive supplier of holograms to MasterCard and we are one of two authorized manufacturers of VISA Dove holograms for sale to approved manufacturers of VISA cards. In 2005, we supplied holographic magnetic stripes for VISA, MasterCard, American Express and Diners Club cards. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors– VISA’s decision to discontinue the use of the current version of HoloMag will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition”. In addition, we supply holograms to Sears, Nordstrom, Quaker State, Sony, Nike, Exxon Mobil, Janssen-Cilag and Eli Lilly, as well as the United States government and other governments and companies. In the sales department we currently employ a Vice President of Sales, a Vice President of Corporate Development, and two full-time, incentive-compensated salespeople. We also utilize incentive-based international sales agents around the world. During 2005, as a result of the roll-out of our HoloMag product we reorganized and expanded our Customer Service group by adding a Director of Customer Service and four customer service personnel. Our sales process generally involves identifying a customer need, designing a solution for the customer 10 need, creating samples for customer evaluation and testing. Most of our target customers are transaction card issuers, government agencies and large corporations that are experiencing counterfeiting or other security problems. The sales process is generally at least three months, and in some cases, the sales process can last several years. Pricing decisions are generally made centrally by our operating executives. We focus some of our marketing efforts on trade shows such as the Card Tech/SecureTech trade show, Cartes and a number of other security industry conferences around the world. Competition The holographic, magnetic tape and product security industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. A number of our competitors are larger, and have greater financial resources, than us. Our industry has become increasingly competitive over the past several years as low cost foreign producers have entered our target markets, and low cost holographic producers that previously focused on non-security applications are increasingly competing in security applications. The holographic industry has also experienced consolidation, which has increased the breadth and scale of some of our competitors. In the holographic industry, competition is generally based on technology, price, product quality and customer service. We also compete with other non-holographic methods or devices. Trademarks and Patents We utilize a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection, to safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We currently hold approximately 30 U.S. patents and numerous foreign patents, as well as patents pending and service marks that are used in our business. We cannot assure you that the degree of protection offered by our patents is sufficient; the success of any of our enforcement actions or the likelihood that patents will be issued for pending applications. Competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make and sell some of our products. Employees As of March 15, 2006, we employed 120 persons of which 57 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. We are party to a collective bargaining agreement with Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical & Energy Workers International Union Local 286 (“Local 286”). Prior to our consolidation in Robbinsville, New Jersey we also had employees covered by an agreement with PACE International Union Local 1-0318. In connection with our move to Robbinsville, New Jersey, we entered into a closure agreement with Local 1-0318, dated March 19, 2005, that provided for the termination of the contract with Local 1-0318. The agreement with Local 286 has a five-year term, which will expire on January 28, 2010. Available Information Our investor relations website is accessable through www.abnh.com. We make available on this website under the caption “Investor Relations (SEC Filings)” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or submit such materials to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 11 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. VISA’s decision to discontinue the use of the current version of HoloMag had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and will continue to impact our results of operations and financial condition in 2006. Sales to manufacturers of VISA transaction cards were approximately 37%, 31% and 30% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Currently we are one of two companies authorized to manufacture and sell the VISA Dove hot stamp holograms to manufacturers of VISA brand transaction cards. On March 15, 2005, VISA announced its intention to phase out the Dove hot stamp hologram that we supply for the front of the VISA card, and to replace it with an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. On April 8, 2005, we entered into an Agreement with VISA, pursuant to which we are authorized to supply HoloMag to VISA approved card manufacturers. Sales of HoloMag to VISA authorized card manufacturers amounted to $2.3 million and $3.8 in the three months ended September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005, respectively. We previously reported that we had learned of a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been affected by electro-static discharge (“ESD”) from static electricity carried on cards incorporating HoloMag. On March 14, 2006, we were informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue, VISA is informing its member financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers that (i) VISA will no longer approve VISA card designs which incorporate the current version of HoloMag, (ii) VISA strongly recommends that their members attempt to avoid further issuance of cards incorporating the current version of HoloMag and (iii) VISA recommends that their members follow an alternate card design incorporating a conventional magnetic stripe and Dove hologram and VISA also provided notice to us that it was revoking our right to produce HoloMag under its agreement (the “VISA Decision”). VISA’s decision to discontinue the use of the current version of HoloMag and the resulting cessation of sales has had, and will continue to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the VISA Decision, the Company’s results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005 have been materially affected. In the quarter ended December 31, 2005, as a result of the VISA Decision, we recorded a pre-tax charge amounting to approximately $5.0 million of which $4.8 million was recorded in cost of goods sold and was principally related to the value of our HoloMag inventory. Also included in the charge were increases in our provisions for accounts receivable and potential non-ESD related warranty claims. We will review the valuation of these accounts on an ongoing basis as part of our closing process and make appropriate changes to our reserve levels based upon the facts at the time. Sales of HoloMag to VISA authorized transaction card manufacturers began in the quarter ended September 30, 2005 and amounted $2.3 million in that quarter. In the quarter ended December 31, 2005 HoloMag sales to VISA authorized card manufacturers amounted to $3.8 million. Sales of VISA HoloMag continued to grow in the first quarter of 2006 compared to the prior quarter until the announcement by VISA on March 14, 2006. Accordingly, our sales in the quarter ending March 31, 2006 are expected to be higher than the level of the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and are expected to decline thereafter as a result of the VISA Decision. We are currently working on the development of a second generation of holographic magnetic tape, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product, or that any such product will be acceptable to our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by our customers. 12 We may be subject to claims arising from the suspension of sales of HoloMag for VISA transaction cards. In its correspondence to us relating to HoloMag, VISA has stated to us its view that “a remediation program for impacted stakeholders may be necessary” and that VISA would seek indemnification from us for such costs and/or claims. We have been evaluating VISA’s actions and claims and have submitted our initial response to VISA. VISA has recommended to its members that cards bearing the HoloMag product already in the market be replaced as soon as practical. Additionally, as a result of VISA’s notification to financial institutions and authorized card manufacturers, we have received communications from customers seeking to address the status and disposition of their HoloMag inventory and orders. In the event that VISA or other third parties assert claims against us, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We depend on sales to transaction card companies for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of the Company’s business is derived from orders placed by certain transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction cards, and variations in the timing of such orders can cause significant fluctuations in the Company’s sales. Sales to transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction cards accounted for approximately 86% of our total sales in 2005 and 84% of our total sales in 2004. The traditional hot stamp patch hologram on many transaction cards is being phased out by some of our major customers and is being replaced by an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. We previously reported that we had learned of a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been affected by electro-static discharge (“ESD”) from static electricity carried on cards incorporating the current version of HoloMag. We have been advised by customers that there is a need to develop a second generation holographic magnetic tape product that addresses ESD and we have commenced such development. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product that will be acceptable to our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by our customers. To the extent that we experience declining sales of HoloMag or traditional hot stamp patch holograms to our transaction card customers, without replacing such sales with sales of new products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on sales to MasterCard for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to MasterCard were approximately 31% and 35% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Company has an agreement with MasterCard, as amended, pursuant to which the Company is the exclusive supplier of MasterCard holograms and holographic magnetic stripes, HoloMag™. In the quarter ended September 30, 2005, MasterCard advised its member financial institutions around the world that it will allow them to choose among card designs that incorporate either the traditional hot stamp patch hologram or HoloMag, both of which are supplied by the Company. The agreement with MasterCard was amended on August 24, 2005, and expires on February 28, 2013, subject to automatic renewal thereafter. If we were to lose a substantial portion of our business with MasterCard without replacing it with new product sales, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to obtain anticipated orders from MasterCard or if we experience delays or cancellations of orders from MasterCard, our business and financial performance will be materially and adversely affected. 13 Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and the price of our common stock may change in response to those fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as: • the impact of the VISA Decision on our business, • timing of customer orders, • customer business cycles, • cancellation or expiration of customer contracts or programs, • card expiration patterns, • inventory replenishment, • increased competition, • changes in our and our competitors’ pricing policies, • changes in the cost of materials or labor, • cost and availability of the services of subcontractors, • costs of recruiting or relocating personnel, • increased research and development expenses, • expenses associated with litigation, • market acceptance of our products, • the time required for customer testing and evaluation, • costs associated with implementing changes in operations, • investments in new technology and equipment, • changes in facility requirements, • changes in our business strategy, and • general economic factors. Because our revenues and operating results may fluctuate, it is possible that in some future quarter, our revenues or operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decrease. We are in a competitive, highly-fragmented industry with many companies competing to deliver a highly-specialized product, which may lead to declining sales or reduced prices for our products. The holographic, magnetic tape and product security industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. A number of our competitors are larger, and have greater financial resources, than us. Our competitors, which are numerous and may have more resources than us, may take away market share or compete with us on the basis of price, which may erode our prices and margins. Our industry has become 14 increasingly competitive over the past several years as low cost foreign producers have entered our target markets, and low cost holographic producers that previously focused on non-security applications are increasingly competing in security applications. The holographic industry has also experienced consolidation, which has increased the breadth and scale of some of our competitors. Increasing competition in the market for our security holograms has resulted in declining sales prices for certain products. Competitive pressures may force us to reduce prices, which can adversely affect our results of operations. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as: • price, • technology, • product quality, and • customer service. In addition, an increased use of non-holographic methods or devices in place of our products could reduce demand for our products. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the technological advances necessary to maintain any competitive advantages. We also cannot assure you that the bases of competition in the industries in which we compete will not shift. We have been advised by customers that there is a need to develop a second generation holographic magnetic tape product that addresses ESD from static electricity carried on cards incorporating the current version of HoloMag, and we have commenced such development. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing such a product that will be acceptable to our customers. We are aware that competitors are working to develop products that would compete with our current and potential future offerings including a second generation of holographic magnetic tape that does not give rise to ESD issues. If we are not able to successfully protect our intellectual property our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is dependent to some extent upon our proprietary technology. We utilize a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection to safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We cannot be certain as to the degree of protection offered by any of our patents or as to the likelihood that patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Certain of our patents have expired and others have been declared invalid in the past. Other patents will expire over the next several years. We can not assure you that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or that our confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our patents or of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business may suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, third-parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, infringement by our products. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of management attention, and could require us to enter into royalty and license agreements that may be disadvantageous to us or cause other harm to our business. If litigation is successful against us, it 15 could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights and liability for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We depend on third-party suppliers and subcontractors for some key products and processes, and we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if those suppliers or subcontractors fail to supply us. We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our products, and subcontract certain production functions or products from third parties some of which are sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply contracts with our suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis. In the case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc., with whom we have a supply contract. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors become unwilling or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our inability to obtain key product components or to have certain processes performed on our behalf could cause delays or reduce product shipments, which could cause our relationship with customers to suffer and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB), an electronic quotation service. The OTCBB does not impose listing standards or requirements, does not provide automatic trade executions and does not maintain relationships with quoted issuers. Stocks traded on the OTCBB may experience: • a loss of market makers, • a lack of readily available bid and ask prices, • a greater spread between the bid and ask prices of its stock, and • a general loss of liquidity compared to established stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market. In addition, many investors have policies against purchasing or holding OTCBB securities. Both trading volume and the market value of our stock have been, and will continue to be, affected by trading on the OTCBB, which may adversely affect the price of our stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. While we have added significantly to our talent pool in 2005 our future success continues to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified: • management, • engineering, • manufacturing, • research and development, • sales and marketing, and • customer support personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional personnel. 16 We may be subject to significant product liability in connection with the products which we provide to our customers. We provide holograms in connection with a wide range of our customers’ products, in which case it is possible that we are subjecting ourselves to product liabilities in association with those products or in connection with the holograms used with those products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be available to cover any such claim or available in amounts sufficient to cover all potential liabilities. Since a significant percentage of our sales are derived from overseas customers, our exports and business may be subject to some risks related to doing business internationally. Sales derived from customers outside the United States were 34% of our total sales in 2005 and 21% of our total sales in 2004. Our international sales are subject to risks, including: • U.S. and international regulatory requirements and policy changes, • exchange rate fluctuations, • political and economic instability, • difficulties in accounts receivable collection, • tariffs and other barriers, and • difficulty in attracting, retaining and managing international representatives. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales, and consequently our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to environmental regulation and is always subject to environmental liability. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we could be subject to monetary damages and injunctive action, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the extent future laws and regulations are adopted or interpretations of existing laws and regulations change, new requirements may be imposed on our future activities or may create liability retroactively. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding options, together with the potential sales of such shares in the public market, could result in substantial dilution of your investment, a detrimental effect on our liquidity and ability to raise additional capital, and a significant decline in the market value of our common stock. As of March 15, 2006, we had 18,888,144 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and 3,151,263 additional shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options. If the holders of shares of common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options or the lapse of the sale restrictions on restricted stock grants were to sell a significant amount of their shares into the open market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a price we deem appropriate. Crane & Co. Inc. has certain rights which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On June 30, 2000, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Crane & Co., Inc. (“Crane”) under which Crane purchased 3,387,720 shares of our common stock. This stock is not currently registered for 17 public resale, but may be sold (i) in privately negotiated transactions, (ii) pursuant to Rule 144 in the public market, and subject to the volume restrictions of Rule 144, or (iii) pursuant to a registration statement filed by the Company. Crane has the right to demand registration on Form S-3 in the event Form S-3 is available to the Company. Since our stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board the Form S-3 is not currently available to the Company. Crane also has piggy-back registration rights which require us to register its stock in the event the Company files a registration statement to sell common stock. On November 30, 2005 we were informed by Crane & Co., Inc. of their intention to sell a portion or all of their shares in an orderly manner. If the sale of these shares is not conducted in an orderly fashion it could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. If we are required to register Crane’s common stock, the Company will incur legal, accounting and other expenses associated with the registration and sale, and the registration and sale of Crane’s common stock may have an impact on the market for our common stock. To date, we are not aware that Crane has sold any shares. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including a change of control that you might otherwise approve. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors and entities related to them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 48% of our common stock as of March 15, 2006. These stockholders acting together have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such a concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of ABNH. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Although we have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock, the potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of: • discouraging potential acquisitions proposals, • delaying or preventing a change in control, and • limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 