RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report. Risks Relating to our Restructuring We have defaulted on payment of our outstanding indebtedness and are in restructuring discussions with our creditors; certain of our creditors may exercise their remedies against us which could prevent us from continuing as a going concern. In September 2003, we announced that we would not be making a scheduled interest payment on our 11-3/8% Senior Notes due September 1, 2004. In October 2003, we suspended principal and interest payments on our unsecured indebtedness and principal payments on our secured indebtedness. Subsequently, on September 1, 2004, we announced that we would not be making the $200 million principal payment on our 11-3/8% Senior Notes due September 1, 2004. As a result, our creditors generally have the right to accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness to them and to demand payment of the full amounts payable under their respective debt instruments. We are continuing discussions with our lenders, including the Ad Hoc Committee which is comprised of certain holders of our 11-3/8% Senior Notes due 2004 and other significant creditors, regarding a restructuring. In 2007, we negotiated and entered into a Plan Support Agreement with our largest secured creditor and unsecured creditors representing more than 70% by principal amount of our unsecured indebtedness, providing for the consensual restructuring of our financial obligations, ownership and governance. Even though these discussions are continuing, our creditors could exercise their rights to collect the debt owed to them or take other actions, including the exercise under Dominican law of provisional remedies that could result in, among other things, denying us access to our bank accounts, or creditors attaching or seizing our assets. If we are not successful in restructuring our outstanding indebtedness, we may not be able to continue to operate our business as a going concern. Our debt restructuring process is subject to significant uncertainty and is likely to result in the effective elimination of our current shareholders’ ownership. If the restructuring process is not successful, we may be forced into insolvency proceedings, which, in the Dominican Republic, could result in our liquidation. The Plan Support Agreement contemplates an exchange of all of our unsecured borrowed money obligations for a pro rata share of new secured notes to be issued by reorganized Tricom and all of the equity in a to-be-formed holding company. This will result in a substantial reduction of the amount of our indebtedness. The interests of the existing holders of our equity, including the American Depository Shares, will be effectively eliminated. Consummation of the proposed restructuring remains subject to significant uncertainties. Although our goal is to achieve a consensual restructuring, we may not succeed in accomplishing this. It is possible that one or more of our creditors may seek to attach or seize our assets prior to the proposed restructuring. If a claim is filed requesting our bankruptcy by one or more of our creditors, we may seek the assistance of the Dominican or United States courts. 9 In general, if we are forced into bankruptcy in the Dominican Republic our shareholders and holders of our indebtedness should expect the following three-stage process: · A conciliation proceeding administered by the Ministry of State for Industry and Commerce (Secretaría de Estado de Industria y Comercio) in which the debtor and its creditors attempt to reach an amicable settlement; · If no amicable settlement is reached, a bankruptcy proceeding is initiated before the Court of First Instance (Tribunal de Primera Instancia) in which the Court determines whether to issue a bankruptcy order declaring the debtor bankrupt; and · If a bankruptcy order is issued, the management and/or liquidation of the business of the debtor and the resolution of creditor claims is administered by up to three receivers. However, a Dominican court may elect not to apply the amicable settlement and bankruptcy laws because no clear precedents on this subject exist and because of the effects of the dual revision judicial system established by the Dominican constitution which provides litigants the right to appeal any decision of the court before a Court of Appeals and later to interpose a certiorari recourse before the Supreme Court. Any bankruptcy proceeding in the Dominican Republic may last for years before a final and irrevocable decision can be obtained. Dominican Republic bankruptcy laws may not be as favorable to Tricom or its creditors as U.S. insolvency and bankruptcy laws. If our restructuring efforts are unsuccessful, we may become involved with bankruptcy proceedings in the Dominican Republic. The bankruptcy laws of the Dominican Republic are significantly different from, and are less developed than, those of the United States. There have been very few bankruptcy proceedings in the Dominican Republic and none has involved an entity with operations as significant or a capital structure as complex as ours. Except for an amicable settlement process, Dominican bankruptcy law does not provide for a reorganization process for debtors or for an automatic stay on collection or foreclosure efforts by secured creditors. Unless creditors’ claims are resolved in an amicable settlement process or in negotiations among creditors and the debtor, Dominican law provides only for the liquidation of a debtor’s business and distribution of the proceeds first to employees, Dominican tax authorities, lawyers, landlords, secured creditors, and finally to unsecured creditors. Amicable settlement and bankruptcy proceedings may be time consuming and subject to significant delays. Our business and market position likely would be adversely and significantly affected by the proceedings and the adverse publicity that would accompany it. Dominican courts have broad discretion and, in the absence of precedent, we cannot predict how courts or appointed receivers would apply the law or administer a bankruptcy. The ability of our creditors to realize any value may be limited, particularly in liquidation, in which case our assets and business units likely would have a significantly diminished value. Our liquidation under Dominican bankruptcy laws could result in creditors receiving distributions from such liquidation in Dominican pesos, including with respect to indebtedness denominated in U.S. dollars, thus subjecting such creditors to the currency risks associated with converting Dominican pesos into U.S. dollars. Successful completion of a consensual restructuring requires the cooperation of our principal shareholders, GFN and Motorola. Entities affiliated with GFN are also among our major creditors. Under our Bylaws, the holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast at a shareholders’ meeting are required to approve the filing of a voluntary bankruptcy petition. Although the holdings of our current shareholders would be effectively eliminated in the restructuring, the consent of our principal shareholders, GFN and Motorola, is necessary in order for any restructuring that involves our filing a voluntary bankruptcy petition to move forward. Entities affiliated with one of our major shareholders, GFN, are among our creditors. It is therefore possible that our major shareholders, in approving our restructuring, may not act in the best interests of our other creditors. 10 Potential for Duplicate Claims. A portion of our payment obligations have been subject to one or more assignments or re-documentation both with respect to third parties and our affiliates and former affiliates. We are not currently aware of any claim that has been asserted against us by more than one claimant. However, it is possible that multiple claims relating to the identical underlying liability may be asserted against us arising from, among other circumstances, alleged defects in the assignment documentation, lack of required consents or failure to obtain appropriate approvals. Such risk may exist in connection with certain transfers of debt between our affiliates. Even if our restructuring process is successfully completed, we may not be able to service new debt or other obligations resulting from the restructuring. Any plan of reorganization resulting from our restructuring process, whether pursuant to the Plan Support Agreement or otherwise, is likely to involve us issuing or assuming a significant amount of indebtedness. As a result, we will likely be highly leveraged immediately after any restructuring is consummated. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to us, including the following: · A substantial portion of our cash flow would need to be used to pay interest on our indebtedness and therefore would not be available for use in our business; · We may be vulnerable to changes in general economic and industry conditions; · Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes could be impaired; · We may have much more indebtedness than our competitors in the Dominican Republic, which may be a competitive disadvantage in our principal market; · Because some of our borrowings may be short-term or at variable rates of interest, we may be vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations, which could result in our incurring higher interest expenses if interest rates increase; · Any devaluation of the Dominican peso would cause the cost of our U.S. dollar-denominated debt to increase; and · Our failure to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in the terms of our borrowings could lead to a default which could cause all or a significant portion of our debt to become immediately payable. No trading market may develop in the securities resulting from our restructuring, and trading in such securities may be subject to significant volatility. It is likely that a combination of debt and equity securities will be issued in connection with the consummation of our restructuring. There is currently no trading market in any securities that may result from our restructuring and, following consummation of the restructuring, an active trading market for those securities may not develop or be sustained. This could adversely affect the liquidity and market price of our securities and holders might not be able to sell them readily. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. If a liquid trading market for our post-restructuring securities does not develop, their price may become more volatile, and it may be more difficult to complete a buy or sell order for such securities. In addition to our operating results, the trading prices of our post-restructuring securities may fluctuate in response to several 11 extraneous factors, including economic conditions in emerging markets generally, in Latin America, and in our business sector. The market price of our post-restructuring securities may decline below the price set in the restructuring. Whether or not a restructuring is achieved, certain creditors may be beyond the jurisdiction of the United States courts. Dominican courts may not recognize the jurisdiction or decisions of the United States courts, including bankruptcy courts, and our Dominican creditors may not be subject to the jurisdiction of the United States courts. In a typical restructuring of an entity organized in the United States, all creditors are subject to the automatic stay provision and are bound by any plan of reorganization resulting from the bankruptcy proceedings. We are organized in the Dominican Republic and certain of our creditors, in particular our Dominican creditors, may not be subject to the jurisdiction of the United States courts. It may therefore be necessary to negotiate separate settlements with such creditors, which may be on terms different from those available to creditors subject to a United States bankruptcy proceeding. We may not reach settlements with all such creditors, who may be able to exercise remedies against us and may not be subject to the automatic stay or other orders of a United States bankruptcy court. We are involved in various legal proceedings which could result in unfavorable decisions and financial difficulties for us. We are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot be certain that these claims will be resolved in our favor. We may, in the future, be subject to further legal proceedings, including those arising out of the December 2002 private placement and other legal proceedings resulting from our former affiliation with certain banking and other financial services entities that collapsed during 2003. If an unfavorable judgment is obtained against us in any of these matters, we may not be able to satisfy the amount of the judgment without significantly impairing our liquidity. There can be no assurance that any of the litigants in our pending legal proceedings would be amenable to participating in any consensual restructuring. If a judgment creditor exercises its rights to collect a judgment, this could result in, among other things, denial of access to our bank accounts, the attachment or seizure of our assets, or the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings in the United States or the Dominican Republic. A bankruptcy proceeding in the Dominican Republic could result in our liquidation. Consummation of our restructuring will require the consent of our regulator, Indotel and possibly other government departments in the Dominican Republic. Our restructuring will likely involve a change of control, an event that will require the consent of our regulator, Instituto Dominicano de las Telecomunicaciones (“Indotel”). As part of the proceedings to determine whether such consent will be granted, third parties, including our competitors, may object to the transactions constituting the restructuring. In considering our application for consent, Indotel may consult with other government departments and governmental agencies in the Dominican Republic, including the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, any of which may raise objections based on matters extraneous to our business or the merits of the restructuring. If Indotel decides in favor of these or any other objections, it could invalidate the transfer of our telecommunications licenses and other concessions and impose fines on us. It is also possible that Indotel might limit the areas where we can provide services. Any determination by Indotel that is adverse to us could have a material adverse effect both on our ability to consummate our restructuring and on our operations and financial position. The change of control contemplated by our restructuring will likely require the consent of the Federal Communications Commission in the United States and state telecommunications regulatory agencies in order for Tricom USA to remain in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. As our restructuring will likely involve a change of control, such a change affecting carriers authorized by the Federal Communications Commission and state telecommunications regulators in the United States typically requires the approval of the Federal Communications Commission and state telecommunications regulators. Since our subsidiary Tricom USA is certified by the Federal Communications Commission and several state telecommunications regulatory agencies, prior approval of these governmental entities for the change of control contemplated by the restructuring may be necessary in order for Tricom USA to remain in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. As part of the proceedings to determine whether consent will be granted, third parties, including our competitors, may object to the transactions constituting the restructuring. In considering our application for consent, the Federal Communications Commission may consult with other government departments and governmental agencies in the United States, including the Department of Homeland Security, which has been reviewing certain transactions involving foreign carriers and foreign individuals. Pursuant to the rules of the Federal Communications Commission and most state telecommunications agencies, we would be required to obtain an approval before consummating the restructuring in order for Tricom USA to remain in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Tax issues concerning the restructuring. The tax authority of the Dominican Republic has authorized us to use significant amounts of accumulated losses to offset potential income arising from the cancellation of our debt that is expected to take place in the context of the restructuring. This authorization is premised on several conditions, in particular, that the ruling only applies for fiscal year 2007. If we do not consummate our restructuring prior to December 31, 2007, we may be subject to significant additional taxes. 12 In or about 2004, we elected to allocate the interest accrued and to be accrued on the instruments underlying our unsecured indebtedness to Tricom USA, which is a guarantor of certain, but not all, of these obligations. Our tax advisors concluded that such allocation was appropriate and as of June 30, 2007, approximately $111 million of accrued and unpaid interest plus $17 million in penalty interest has been allocated to Tricom USA. It is possible, however, that the Internal Revenue Service, another U.S. agency, or the Dominican tax authorities would seek to challenge this allocation. To the extent such interest is allocated back to Tricom, S.A., we would be required to pay all requisite withholding taxes on such interest and it is possible, although unlikely, that Tricom, S.A. could incur additional, fines and penalties in the Dominican Republic. Risks Relating to our Corporate Governance GFN owns stock with a majority of the voting power and will be able to determine many decisions concerning us, including matters in connection with any restructuring that may require shareholder approval. According to records available to us, Mr. Manuel Arturo Pellerano, together with members of his family, either directly or through GFN or their other wholly-owned subsidiaries, are the beneficial owners of 17,453,874 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 11,486,720 shares of our Class B Common Stock, representing approximately 50.8% of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock (calculated in accordance with SEC Rule 13d-3) and 60% of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock. Mr. Pellerano, together with members of his family, has the right to appoint a majority of the members of our Board of Directors and, indirectly, the right to control selection of our management. Through this control, Mr. Pellerano is able to significantly influence our strategic direction, our corporate governance and, to the extent that director or shareholder votes are required, the outcome of our restructuring. Entities affiliated with GFN are also among our major creditors. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into, transactions with related entities that are controlled by Mr. Pellerano or members of his family. Such transactions may not in all respects be on arm’s length terms and may not be in the best interests of our other stakeholders, such as creditors and minority shareholders. Directors’ and others’ duties in the Dominican Republic are different from those in the United States, and the provisions of our Bylaws and Shareholders Agreement may be of limited benefit to interested parties. We are organized under, and our Bylaws and Shareholders Agreement are governed by, the laws of the Dominican Republic. Under Dominican law, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors, controlling shareholders and others, is not as well developed as in the United States. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for creditors, minority shareholders and others to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be if we were a U.S. company. Our principal corporate documents consist of our Bylaws and the Shareholders Agreement between our two principal shareholders, GFN and Motorola. See Item 7, Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders Agreement. While these documents address certain corporate governance issues, one of their principal purposes was to regulate matters as between those two shareholders. Accordingly, the benefit of these documents to other interested parties, such as minority shareholders and creditors, may be limited. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict how a court of competent jurisdiction in the Dominican Republic would interpret the provisions of these documents in specified circumstances. We may have significant liabilities arising out of a private placement that took place in December 2002. Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2002 and the related statements of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and comprehensive loss and cash flows for the year then ended were restated to reflect adjustments to the financial information and footnotes previously reported in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002. The adjustments related primarily to the purchase in December 2002 of shares of our Class A Common Stock by a group of investors for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $70 million. See Item 7, Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—2002 Private Placement in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, for a detailed description of the Placement, the report of the Special Committee and the restatement and amendment of our 2002 financial statements. 13 The report of the Special Committee contained observations to the effect that we may have certain undisclosed actual or contingent liabilities arising out of the Placement and that the disclosure as to the Placement and related transactions contained in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 may have been deficient and/or not consistent with information presented to the Special Committee. The report also stated that varying conclusions can be reached as to whether we properly accounted for the Placement, based on different hypothetical fact scenarios. As of the filing date of this report, no claims arising out of the events relating to the Placement have been asserted, in any jurisdiction, in any litigation or similar proceedings brought against us or our subsidiaries. Nevertheless, we have received indications that certain parties involved in the Placement believe that they have claims in connection with the Placement, although we are unable at the present time to determine either the probability of such claims being asserted against us, or the validity or amount of such claims if they are asserted. While it is possible that we will in the future need to establish loss contingencies relating to the Placement, our management does not believe that this is necessary at the present time. Claims arising out of the Placement could, in the aggregate, equal or substantially exceed the $70 million amount of the Placement, in particular if the claimants seek rescission of the Placement or certain related transactions. The report of the Special Committee raised several issues relating to our corporate governance, most of which have not been addressed. In addition to the possibility of liabilities arising out of the Placement, the Special Committee offered several observations and corrective recommendations for our Board of Directors’ consideration, including, among others, the following: · The creation of an independent audit committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with current best corporate governance practices for U.S. public companies; · Expansion of the scope of review of our internal audit function to cover all related party transactions; · Strengthening the internal legal function by adoption of more stringent internal policies covering the legal review and sign-off of corporate transactions, and Board of Directors approval of a consistent policy for retention and use of outside legal counsel in connection with any significant corporate transaction; · Constitution of a formal internal management disclosure committee, comprised of members of our finance/accounting, legal and selected business units, having primary responsibility for creating and reviewing our public disclosures of material events and transactions and other matters; · Adoption of a comprehensive code of conduct, covering all directors, officers and employees, in a form consistent with best internal governance practices for public companies addressing, among other things, the guidelines for appropriate documentation and independent review and approval of transactions involving our related parties or affiliates; · Adoption of a formal records retention policy covering, among other things, a classification of records to be preserved (and for how long), who has access to our files and guidelines for documenting material transactions, etc. A more detailed description of these recommendations is set forth in our Report on Form 6-K dated December 9, 2005. To date, we have not implemented most of these recommendations. While adoption of these or similar recommendations may not prevent the occurrence of transactions raising issues similar to those raised by the Placement, our failure to implement these recommendations could leave us exposed to further liabilities from transactions that may occur in the future. 14 We do not have an audit committee and our internal accounting systems and controls may be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. Our Board of Directors has not appointed an audit committee. For purposes of U.S. securities laws, in the absence of an audit committee, our full Board of Directors fulfills the functions of the audit committee. While our Board of Directors is not currently required to appoint an audit committee, the absence of one is unusual and not in accordance with current best corporate governance practices for U.S. public companies. During the course of the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, our independent registered accounting firm noted several major weaknesses in our financial reporting and related internal controls. Our auditor recommended that our management assess these weaknesses and implement improvements in the monitoring, revision and supervision of our internal controls over financial reporting. While we have implemented many of these recommendations, we are still in the process of addressing these issues. Our internal accounting systems and controls may be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. We may be, and historically may have been, unable to detect or prevent a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. We are not able at the present time to engage an internationally recognized auditing firm. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 and prior years our auditor was the member firm of KPMG located in the Dominican Republic (“KPMG”). This firm performed our audit work for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, but withheld its consent to filing our Annual Report on Form 20-F for that year. Since then, KPMG has not performed any further work for us. In March 2005, we announced that Sotomayor had been retained to act as our auditor for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in December 2005, we announced that they would also be retained as auditor for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003, replacing KPMG. Sotomayor was also our auditor for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. Sotomayor is a Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) registered independent public accounting firm with its principal office in Pasadena, California. The firm has acted as independent auditor to Tricom USA, our wholly owned subsidiary in the United States, since 1999. While our auditor’s PCAOB qualification permits it to act as our independent registered public accounting firm, it is not an internationally recognized firm, and may not have available to it all of the resources necessary to address the more complex audit and accounting issues we face. Risks Relating to our Capital Structure and Liquidity Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. However, because of our current financial condition and the effects of the Dominican economy, including the effects of the fluctuation of the Dominican peso on our operating results and other matters, the realization of assets and satisfaction of our liabilities are subject to substantial uncertainty. In the past, we financed our capital expenditure and working capital requirements, to the extent we did not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, with borrowings, principally in Dominican markets. In light of our recent financial results and adverse developments in the Dominican economy, we may not be able to generate the cash flow from operations required to operate as a going concern. At the present time, our only source of liquidity is cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales. We do not have access to outside funding sources. Even if we are able to reach agreement with our lenders concerning a financial restructuring, we may not be able to obtain the financing in the future necessary to continue funding our operations or capital needs. The report on our financial statements by our independent registered accounting firm contains an explanatory paragraph that states that these factors, among others, create substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service requirements. Even if we are able to reach agreement with our lenders concerning a financial restructuring, our ability to pay interest on our indebtedness (even if the principal amount is reduced in a restructuring) and meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future operating performance, including our ability to increase revenues and control expenses, which in turn depends on successful 15 implementation of our strategy and on financial, competitive, regulatory, technical and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. It is likely that any new debt issued in exchange for our existing indebtedness will be payable in U.S. dollars and our ability to pay interest and principal will continue to be affected by and dependent on the performance of the Dominican economy. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations even if our current indebtedness is restructured. The volatility and depreciation of the Dominican peso against the U.S. dollar could reduce the amount of cash we will have to fund our operations or to purchase equipment and cable television programming, and to repay indebtedness, even if our indebtedness is restructured. For 2005 and 2006, we earned 52.5% and 55% respectively, of our operating revenues in Dominican pesos and the remainder of our operating revenues in foreign currency, primarily in U.S. dollars. The percentage of operating revenues in Dominican pesos could increase if we successfully increase our share in Dominican local markets in accordance with our business strategy. From 2005 to 2006, the average annual exchange rate increased 9.7% representing a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Dominican peso compared to a decrease of 27.8% from 2004 to 2005. Most of our indebtedness is U.S. dollar-denominated and must be paid in U.S. dollars. Our communications equipment vendors and cable programming providers all require that we pay in U.S. dollars. A significant increase in the exchange rate in the foreseeable future may again adversely affect our operating results, as well as our ability to purchase U.S. dollars in order to service our debt obligations and pay equipment vendors and cable programming providers. Our purchase of substantial amounts of U.S. dollars in Dominican markets could adversely affect the value of the Dominican peso in relation to the U.S. dollar and make these purchases more costly for us. Other Tax Issues. The Dominican government has in the past changed tax rates and created new taxes, as well as modified the system of taxation with some frequency. In addition, it is possible that the Dominican government may impose taxes related to the telecommunications industry that may affect our financial performance. Risks Related to our Operations Our principal competitor for the provision of local, mobile and international long distance services in the Dominican Republic, Codetel, has substantially greater market share and resources, which may prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. We compete primarily with Compañía Dominicana de Teléfonos C. por A., or “Codetel” (formerly Verizon Dominicana, which was acquired by América Móvil, S.A. de C.V. in December 2006). Codetel has an established market presence, networks and resources substantially greater than ours. At December 31, 2006, approximately 80% of the Dominican Republic’s local access line customers and approximately 50% of subscribers for mobile services were customers of Codetel. Codetel’s presence is particularly strong in the market segments that we now are targeting, including consumer and business post-paid subscribers for mobile and local services, which generate greater revenues than pre-paid individual subscribers. The growth of our market share among consumer and corporate post-paid subscribers depends upon our ability to convince Codetel customers to either add, or switch to, the telephony services we offer. If Codetel implements significant price reductions for particular services, we may be forced to reduce our rates in response in order to remain competitive. In addition, Codetel could expend significantly greater amounts of capital than are available to us in order to upgrade its network and/or sustain price reductions over a prolonged period. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our market share for local services or in other markets in which we compete with Codetel. Other entrants in the Dominican markets, particularly for mobile services, have increased competition for our services, and could reduce our market share or increase price competition. In addition to Codetel, we face substantial competition in the mobile market: 16 · Orange, a subsidiary of France Telecom Group, offers cellular services and has developed an aggressive marketing strategy based on offering services at discounts. We believe that at December 31, 2006 Orange subscribers represented approximately 30% of subscribers for mobile services in the Dominican Republic. Orange also employs GSM technology, which is the prevalent technology used in Europe and makes its services compatible with handsets that many tourists use; · All America Cables and Radio, Inc., or “Centennial Dominicana” (which was acquired by Trilogy International Partners in early 2007), is an integrated telecommunications provider that offers mobile and data services. As a result of these and other potential new entrants, we expect to face more competition in the Dominican telecommunications market in the future, including from international communications companies with significantly greater resources than ours, which could adversely affect our ability to maintain our market share or require us to lower prices. Further investment by foreign companies in Dominican telecommunications markets could limit the number of U.S. carriers that would send significant traffic to us, thereby adversely affecting our ability to generate international long distance termination revenues. Due to unfavorable market trends, termination rates for international traffic from the United States and Puerto Rico to the Dominican Republic have declined and could continue to decline, which would further reduce our international revenues and related profit margins. If we experience a significant number of customer non-payments our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business plan includes increasing our revenues from post-paid services, including mobile telecommunication services and cable television services. Although we have instituted measures to minimize consumer credit risks, these efforts may not be successful as we expand our services in the post-paid area. Moreover, efforts to minimize credit risk may limit the number of our new subscribers. If we experience a significant number of non-payments or are unable to attract new post-paid customers, then our revenues will decrease and our cash position will be weakened. Termination rates for international traffic from the United States and Puerto Rico have declined and could continue to decline, which would reduce our international revenues and profit margins from these revenues. Revenues from our international long distance business represented approximately 38% of our operating revenues in 2004, and 32% in each of 2005 and 2006. Exchange rate and market trends have caused our average termination rates for traffic between the United States and the Dominican Republic to decline from $0.41 per minute during 1996 to $0.069 per minute in 2006. We believe that competitive and regulatory pressures could continue to push settlement rates lower. Future decreases in termination rates, without a corresponding increase in our international long distance traffic originating in the United States and Puerto Rico, would reduce our international termination revenues and adversely affect the profit margins that we realize from these revenues. As in the rest of the world, there are changing dynamics in our international business. Modern market technologies such as Voice-over-Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) equipment have created an environment allowing new entrants into this business in the Dominican Republic. These companies may extend their reach to many of our traditional U.S.-based carriers and resellers that terminate significant traffic in the Dominican Republic. Because we are receiving an increasing portion of our international minutes from U.S.-based resellers, we may experience substantial fluctuation in our international revenues. Since 1997, we have derived an increasing proportion of international revenues from U.S.-based resellers, which are companies that typically buy long distance minutes in bulk and resell the minutes to other companies or individual end users. During 17 2006, resellers originated approximately 68% of our international long distance minutes from the United States to the Dominican Republic. While we enter into agreements with resellers, they are not required to provide us with any specified amount of traffic. The volume of minutes and revenues we receive from these resellers has significantly varied throughout the past years because of competition for their business, primarily from Codetel, our main competitor, and because of the uncertain financial condition of many resellers. The price per minute we charge a reseller is frequently renegotiated and as a result we, together with our competitors, struggle to maintain stable prices. At December 31, 2006, we received traffic from approximately 75 resellers. Intense competition in U.S. markets among international long distance carriers has resulted in bankruptcy filings by many of our reseller clients. Our net growth in, and revenue derived from, subscribers may be reduced by customer disconnections or churn. Our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may be, affected by subscriber disconnections, whether initiated by our customers or by us. In order to realize net growth in subscribers, we must replace disconnected subscribers with new subscribers. Our average monthly disconnection rate, or “churn rate,” was 5.1% for mobile subscribers during 2006 compared to 6.7% during 2005, and 1.6% for local access line subscribers during 2006 compared to 1.8% during 2005. During 2005 and 2006, our average churn rate for cable television was 1.4%.. The sales and marketing costs associated with attracting new subscribers are substantial, relative to the costs of providing service to existing subscribers. If we are unable to maintain our credit policies or otherwise limit churn, we will experience a decline in net growth in subscribers and revenue. We may not have sufficient resources to keep pace with rapid changes in technologies used to provide telecommunications services which could increase competition or require us to make substantial additional expenditures to maintain and improve our current networks, which could reduce our revenues from subscribers and cash flow. The services we offer are technology intensive. The development of new technologies could make the technology we use obsolete. We may have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies to remain competitive. New technologies we choose may not prove to be commercially successful. We would require substantial investment to replace or upgrade all or a substantial part of our network. We have chosen to improve our liquidity by reducing our capital expenditures which affects our ability to improve our network. We spent approximately $26.2 million on capital expenditures in 2006. This compares to $28.6 million in 2005 and $13.3 million expended in 2004. If we do not invest in the latest technology, our network may rapidly become obsolete and we may not be able to retain our existing customers or attract new ones. If we are unable to continue offering high-quality programming, our cable revenues may decline. The success of our cable television services depends upon our ability to acquire popular, high-quality programming content. We license a significant portion of our programming from third parties. Our arrangements with these third parties regarding programming may be terminated, or may not be renewed on favorable terms, if at all. These third parties could increase our costs of obtaining programming and we may not be able to pass these costs on to our cable subscribers. As we upgrade the channel capacity of our cable system and add programming to our basic cable service, we may not be able to pass programming costs on to our cable subscribers. If some or all of our programming arrangements are terminated or if we cannot negotiate new agreements on terms favorable to us, we may lose existing subscribers and attract fewer new subscribers, which would reduce our revenues. Our operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses, thefts and other disruptions. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Computer viruses, break-ins or other problems could lead to: · The interruption, delay or cessation of services to our subscribers; 18 · The compromise of confidential information relating to our subscribers; · Damage to our reputation and the loss of subscribers; and · Costly litigation. The Dominican Republic is highly vulnerable to hurricanes. Much of our network is above ground, including significant parts of our backbone. A major hurricane could result in significant damage to and disruption of our network. In addition, our network may not be fully insured. Our network is also vulnerable to theft and sabotage. Risks Relating to our Principal Market, the Dominican Republic Our results of operations have been, and may continue to be, materially adversely affected by the fluctuation of the peso and the economic conditions currently prevailing in the Dominican Republic. We realize a substantial portion of our revenues in Dominican pesos and, as a result, the increase in the exchange rate of the Dominican peso to the U.S. dollar has had and may in the future have a material adverse effect on the U.S. dollar value of our operating results and our ability to service our debt which is largely denominated in U.S. dollars. The average annual Dominican peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar increased 9.7% in 2006 compared to a 27.8% decrease in 2005, and a 36.1% increase in 2004. The fluctuation of the Dominican peso in the past few years has had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, as our largely Dominican peso-denominated assets have depreciated in value and our indebtedness is largely U.S. dollar denominated. Although the exchange rate recently has improved, in particular following the change in government in 2004, there cannot be any assurance that current exchange rates will be sustained. Any further depreciation of the Dominican peso against the U.S. dollar will correspondingly increase the amount of our debt in Dominican pesos, with further adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. Our total indebtedness as of December 31, 2006 was $447.1 million. It is impossible to predict whether, and to what extent, the value of the Dominican peso may further depreciate against the U.S. dollar and how these uncertainties will affect the Dominican economy and the consumption of telecommunication services. Moreover, we cannot predict whether the Dominican government will modify its monetary policy and, if so, what impact any such changes could have on our financial condition and results of operations. Poverty, social unrest and shortages of basic services in the Dominican Republic could affect the use of telecommunications services, which would decrease our revenues. The Dominican Republic has widespread poverty. From time to time, the country has experienced social unrest partly as a result of price increases and shortages of water and electricity. Any increase in poverty, social unrest or shortage of basic services could adversely affect the use of telecommunications services. You may not be able to enforce claims in the Dominican Republic based on U.S. laws. A majority of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these other persons to enforce judgments obtained against us or against them in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, other federal laws of the United Sates or laws of the individual states of the United States. No treaty currently exists between the United States and the Dominican Republic providing for reciprocal enforcement of 19 foreign judgments. We have been advised by our Dominican counsel, that there is doubt as to (1) the ability of a plaintiff to bring an original action in a Dominican court which is predicated solely upon the United States securities laws, other federal laws of the United States or laws of the individual states of the United States and (2) the enforceability in Dominican courts of judgments of United States courts obtained in actions predicated upon civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws, other federal laws of the United States or laws of the individual states of the United States. Our Dominican counsel also has advised us that the enforceability of actions brought in Dominican courts of liabilities predicated on U.S. laws would require compliance with certain procedures, including the validation by Dominican courts of decisions rendered by United States courts. Compliance with such procedures could require a substantial amount of time and expense, and local defendants could assert defenses to enforcement based on noncompliance with such procedures. Foreign plaintiffs bringing original actions in a Dominican court also can, at the request of the defendant, be required to post a litigation bond in an amount established by such court in its discretion. The Dominican legal system is based upon civil law principles according to which judges decide both the facts and legal issues of a case, and they are not bound by legal precedents. As a result, judges have broader discretion in reaching decisions than do judges in the United States. In the past, the United States Department of Commerce has reported that Dominicans and foreign observers have criticized the Dominican judicial system for what they perceive as an inequitable resolution of business disputes. The Dominican legal system, coupled with the fact that substantially all of our assets are located in the Dominican Republic, may present substantial obstacles to the enforcement of judgments against us, as well as our directors and officers in the Dominican Republic. Increases in the inflation rate would adversely affect the Dominican Republic’s economy and the demand for our services. Inflation in the Dominican Republic has decreased in 2006 compared to the two previous years. According to the Central Bank, the annual rate of inflation was 5.0% in 2006 compared to 7.4% in 2005 and 28.7% in 2004. While inflation in 2005 and 2006 reflected general price increases, the high level of inflation in 2004 was principally due to the depreciation of the Dominican peso against the U.S. dollar, higher fuel prices and growth in public spending. According to the Central Bank, the average annual exchange rate of the Dominican peso to the U.S. dollar increased 9.7% in 2006, compared to a decrease of 27.8% in 2005 and an increase of 36.1% in 2004. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against the Dominican peso directly affects the Dominican Republic’s inflation rate because the Dominican Republic relies heavily on imports from the United States of raw materials and consumer goods. High inflation levels could adversely affect the Dominican Republic’s economy and reduce demand for our services. Risks Relating to our Shares and ADSs Our ADSs have been delisted and are no longer listed on a national securities exchange; our Depositary Agreement has been terminated; our debt restructuring is likely to result in effective elimination of our current shareholders. On May 11, 2004, the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) determined to suspend trading and pursue delisting of our ADSs, ticker symbol “TDR”. On May 19, 2004, our ADSs began trading on the OTC (over-the-counter) Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) under the symbol “TRICY.OB”. On July 25, 2004, the OTCBB suspended trading of our ADSs. Thereafter, our ADSs were traded on the “Pink Sheets” service under the symbol “TRICY.PK”. In December 2006, the Bank of New York, as depositary for our ADS facility, notified us and holders of our ADSs that they were terminating the ADS facility. With the termination of the ADS facility, our ADSs ceased trading on the “Pink Sheets” service on March 29, 2007. Upon termination of the ADS facility, most of the depositary’s obligations under the Deposit Agreement also terminate. Holders of our ADSs may obtain delivery of the shares of Class A Common Stock underlying our ADSs, upon payment of certain taxes and processing fees. As a result of the termination, the Bank of New York is no longer obligated to perform any functions in connection with voting the Class A Common Stock underlying our ADSs. 20 Following consummation of our debt restructuring, the interests of our current shareholders, including holders of our ADSs, are expected to be effectively eliminated. GFN may act without approval of the ADS holders to release directors and officers from liability. Under Dominican law, shareholders are asked to vote upon the performance of management at annual shareholders’ meetings. Our vigilance officer delivers a report on our financial performance and other issues related to management’s performance. If the holders of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast approve management’s performance, all shareholders are deemed to have released the directors and officers from liability to us or our shareholders arising out of actions taken or any failure to take actions by any of them on our behalf during the prior fiscal year, with certain exceptions. As a result, shareholders likely will fail in any suit brought in a Dominican court with respect to such acts or omissions. Officers and directors may not be released from any claims or liability for criminal acts, fraud, self-dealing or gross negligence. GFN controls a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at annual shareholders’ meetings and, without the concurrence of other shareholders, is able to approve the performance of management, thereby releasing management from liability to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 