ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains "forward-looking statements," as discussed in Part II, Item 7 below. These risk factors are important to understanding statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports. Our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones relevant to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Adverse credit and financial market events and conditions could, among other things, impede access to or increase the cost of financing or cause our commercial customers to incur liquidity issues that could lead to some of our services being cancelled or result in reduced revenues and lower operating income, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets, including due to the recent downgrade of the U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating and the European debt crisis, as well as unstable consumer sentiment and high unemployment, continue to challenge the U.S. and global financial and credit markets and overall economies. These developments have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could, among other things, lead to impairment charges, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt, cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and not give technical or other waivers under our senior secured term loan facility and pre-funded letter of credit facility (together, the "Term Facilities") and senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") (the Term Facilities and Revolving Credit Facility are collectively referred to herein as the "Credit Facilities"), to the extent we may seek them in the future, thereby causing us to be in default under one or more of the Credit Facilities. These disruptions also could cause our commercial customers to encounter liquidity issues that could lead to some of our services being cancelled or reduced, or that could result in an increase in the time it takes our customers to pay us, or that could lead to a decrease 14 Table of Contents in pricing for our services and products, any of which could adversely affect our accounts receivable, among other things, and, in turn, increase our working capital needs. Volatile swings in the commercial real estate segment could also impact the demand for our services as landlords cut back on services provided to their tenants. Although we are not currently experiencing any limitation of access to the Credit Facilities and are not aware of any issues currently impacting the ability of the lenders under them to honor their commitments to extend credit, there is no assurance that the U.S. and global credit crisis will not adversely affect our ability to borrow under the Credit Facilities in the future. Liquidity or capital problems at one or more of the lenders on the Revolving Credit Facility could reduce or eliminate the amount available for us to draw under such facility. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. There can be no assurance that adverse developments in the credit and financial markets, along with other economic uncertainties, will not get worse over time. Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets and economic uncertainties make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. The continuance of the current uncertain economic conditions or further deterioration of such conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further weakening in general economic conditions, especially as they may affect home sales, unemployment or consumer confidence or spending levels, may adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial portion of our results of operations is dependent upon spending by consumers. Deterioration in general economic conditions and consumer confidence could affect the demand for our services. Consumer spending and confidence tend to decline during times of declining economic conditions, and there can be no assurance that consumer spending or confidence will materially improve. A worsening of macroeconomic indicators, including weak home sales, higher home foreclosures, declining consumer confidence or rising unemployment rates, could adversely affect consumer spending levels, reduce the demand for our services and adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These factors could also negatively impact the timing or the ultimate collection of accounts receivable, which would adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Weather conditions and seasonality affect the demand for our services and our results of operations and cash flows. The demand for our services and our results of operations are affected by weather conditions, including, without limitation, potential impacts, if any, from climate change, known and unknown, and by the seasonal nature of our lawn care services, termite and pest control services, home inspection services and disaster restoration services. For example, in geographies that do not have a year-round growing season, the demand for our lawn care services decreases during the winter months. Adverse weather conditions (e.g., droughts, severe storms and significant rain or snow fall), whether created by climate change factors or otherwise, can adversely impact the timing of product or service delivery and/or demand for lawn care services, and cooler temperatures can impede the development of the termite swarm and lead to lower demand for our termite control services. Severe winter storms can also impact our home cleaning business if we cannot travel to service locations due to hazardous road conditions. In addition, extreme temperatures can lead to an increase in service requests related to household systems and appliances in our American Home Shield business, resulting in higher claim frequency and costs and lower profitability thereby adversely impacting our results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Availability of our raw materials and increases in raw material prices, fuel prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial performance is affected by the level of our operating expenses, such as fuel, fertilizer, chemicals, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle, self-insurance costs and other insurance premiums as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures. In particular, our financial performance is adversely affected by increases in these operating costs. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely, and previous increases in fuel prices increased our costs of operating vehicles and equipment. We cannot predict what effect the recent global events could have on fuel prices, but it is possible that such events could lead to reduced fuel supplies, resulting in higher fuel prices. With respect to fuel, our fleet, which consumes approximately 21 million gallons annually, has been negatively impacted by significant increases in fuel prices in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future. Although we hedge a significant portion of our fuel costs, we do not hedge all of those costs. A ten percent change in fuel prices would result in a change of approximately $6.5 million in the Company's annual fuel cost before considering the impact of fuel swap contracts. Based upon current Department of Energy fuel price forecasts, as well as the hedges the Company has executed to date for 2012, the Company has projected that fuel prices will increase our fuel costs by $10 million to $15 million for 2012 compared to 2011. Fuel price increases can also result in increases in the cost of fertilizer, chemicals and other materials used in our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in costs of fuel, fertilizer, chemicals, raw materials, wages, employee benefits, healthcare, vehicles, insurance and other operating costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers, and the rates we pay to our subcontractors and suppliers may increase, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not successfully implement our business strategies, including achieving our growth objectives. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the time frames anticipated, the anticipated benefits of our various growth initiatives. Our various business strategies and initiatives, including our productivity and customer retention initiatives, are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements in our business. Even if these efficiency improvement initiatives are undertaken, we may not fully achieve our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements or these initiatives could adversely impact our customer retention and/or our operations. In addition, our strategies to enhance talent management and transfer best practices across our businesses may not produce the efficiencies and productivity levels we seek and may present unforeseen challenges. Also, our business strategy may change from time to time. As a result, we may not be able to achieve our expected results of operations and cash flows. Our market segments are highly competitive. Competition could reduce our share of the market segments served by us and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We operate in highly competitive market segments. Changes in the source and intensity of competition in the market segments served by us impact the demand for our services and may also result in additional pricing pressures. The relatively low capital cost of entry to certain of our business categories has led to strong competitive market segments, including competition from 16 Table of Contents regional and local owner-operated companies. Regional and local competitors operating in a limited geographic area may have lower labor, benefits and overhead costs. The principal methods of competition in our businesses include name recognition, quality and speed of service, pricing, customer satisfaction and reputation. No assurance can be given that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and that the competitive pressures that we face will not result in reduced market segment share, reduced pricing or adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified key executives or transition smoothly to new leadership, which could hurt the Company and its businesses and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. The execution of our business strategy and our financial performance will continue to depend in significant part on our executive management team and other key management personnel and the smooth transition of new senior leadership. As a result of a more aggressive strategic plan, we have decided to enhance many of our senior management positions, including the hiring of Thomas J. Coba as President, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic & AmeriSpec, Roger A. Cregg as Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer and Charles M. Fallon as President, Terminix, as well as moving Thomas G. Brackett to a new position as President, TruGreen. Our future success depends in large part on our success in utilizing current, experienced senior leadership and transitioning responsibilities to, and implementing the goals and objectives of, our new business unit executives. In addition, any inability to attract in a timely manner qualified key executives, retain our leadership team and recruit other important personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Public perceptions that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe may adversely impact the demand for our services. In providing our services, we use, among other things, fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides. Public perception that our products and services are not environmentally friendly or safe or are harmful to humans or animals, whether justified or not, or our improper application of these chemicals, could reduce demand for our services, increase regulation or government restrictions or actions, result in fines or penalties, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in our services or products could impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the services and products we offer our customers. For example, when Terminix transitioned from offering primarily bait termite services to providing both liquid and bait termite services, this transition required the purchase of additional equipment and additional training. The bait and termite service lines also have different price points (for both the initial treatment and for renewals), different ongoing service obligations and different revenue recognition policies. An unsuccessful rollout or adjustment of our new services or products could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Laws and government regulations applicable to our businesses could increase our legal and regulatory expenses, risks and impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our businesses are subject to significant international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include laws relating to consumer protection, wage and hour requirements, franchising, the employment of immigrants, labor relations, permitting and licensing, workers' safety, the environment, insurance and home service contracts, employee benefits, marketing (including, without limitation, telemarketing or green marketing) and advertising, the application of fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides and other chemicals, noise and air pollution from power equipment and water management techniques. In particular, we anticipate that various international, federal, state, provincial and local governing bodies may propose additional legislation and regulation that may be detrimental to our business or may substantially increase our operating costs, including legislation relating to the Employee Free Choice Act; environmental regulations related to water quality, water use, chemical use, climate change, equipment efficiency standards, refrigerant use and other environmental matters; other consumer protection laws or regulations; or "do-not-knock," "do-not-mail," "do-not-leave" or other marketing regulations. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses and changes to such requirements may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we were to fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in litigation, suffer losses to our reputation or suffer the loss of licenses or incur penalties that may affect how our business is operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The enactment of new federal or state legislation or the promulgation of new regulations or interpretations at any level of government may also expose the Company to potential new liabilities or costs, or may require the Company to modify its business model or business practices. At this time, the Company does not expect any such changes in law or regulation to have a material effect on its reputation, business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows; however, in March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation was enacted in the U.S. which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, including for dependents up to age 26; eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits; restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded; and requires employers to provide employees with insurance coverage that meets minimum eligibility and coverage requirements. The legislation imposes implementation effective dates that began in 2010. Due to the breadth and complexity of the health reform legislation, the current lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, the phased-in nature of the implementation and pending court challenges, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the health reform legislation on our business over the coming years. However, new requirements to provide additional health insurance benefits to our employees would likely increase our expenses, and any such increases could be significant enough to materially impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional or new regulations promulgated by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may also require the Company to modify its business model or business practices. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws pertaining to the use of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, could result in significant costs that adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. International, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, products containing 18 Table of Contents pesticides generally must be registered with the EPA and similar state agencies before they can be sold or applied. The failure to obtain or the cancellation of any such registration, or the withdrawal from the market place of such pesticides, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether other products could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. The pesticides we use are manufactured by independent third parties and are evaluated by the EPA as part of its ongoing exposure risk assessment. The EPA may decide that a pesticide we use will be limited or will not be re-registered for use in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA's continuing evaluations. In addition, the use of certain pesticides, herbicides and fertilizer products is regulated by various international, federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may require that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products only be used on certain types of locations. These laws may also require users to post notices on properties at which products have been or will be applied, may require notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future or may restrict or ban the use of certain products. Although we strive to comply with such regulations and have processes in place designed to achieve compliance, given our dispersed locations, distributed operations and numerous employees, we can give no assurance that we can prevent violations of these or other regulations from occurring. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, we cannot assure you that the pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers or other products we apply, or the manner in which we apply them, will not be alleged to cause injury to the environment, to people or to animals, or that such products will not be banned in certain circumstances. The costs of compliance, non-compliance, remediation, combating unfavorable public perceptions or defending products liability lawsuits could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. International, federal, state, provincial and local agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, discharges from our facilities and the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur significant costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, fines, penalties and civil or criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, these laws and regulations. If there is a significant change in the facts or circumstances surrounding the assumptions upon which we operate, or if we are found to violate applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, it could have a material adverse impact on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses and on our reputation, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. International, federal, state, provincial and local agencies that regulate environmental matters may change environmental laws, regulations or standards, including imposing new regulations with respect to climate change matters. Changes in any of these or other laws, regulations or standards could materially adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to interruption of our business operations, private litigation, reputational damage and costly penalties. We rely on, among other things, commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal information. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment 19 Table of Contents cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are central to meeting standards set by the payment card industry ("PCI"). The Company is evaluating and updating its systems and protocols to establish compliance with these industry standards as they currently exist, and going forward will continue to evaluate its systems and protocols in a continued effort to comply with industry standards, as such standards may change from time to time in the future. Activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches or errors in application related to our systems or failures to comply with standards set by the PCI could cause damage to our reputation and interruptions in our operations, including our customers' ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products and could result in a violation of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business process outsourcing initiatives have increased our reliance on third-party contractors and may expose our business to harm upon the termination or disruption of our third party contractor relationships. Our strategy to increase profitability, in part, by reducing our costs of operations includes the implementation of certain business process outsourcing initiatives. As a result, our future operations are expected to significantly rely on third party vendors to provide certain services that we previously performed internally. Any disruption, termination or substandard performance of these outsourced services, including possible breaches by third party vendors of their agreements with us, could adversely affect our brands, customer relationships, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Also, to the extent a third party outsourcing provider relationship is terminated, there is a risk that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable, and even if we find an alternate provider, or choose to insource such services, there are significant risks associated with any transitioning activities. We expect to phase out a significant portion of our use of information technology services provided by International Business Machines Corporation by the end of 2013. In the event a third party outsourcing relationship is terminated and we are unable to replace it, there is a risk that we may not have the capabilities to perform these services internally, resulting in a disruption to our business, which could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, ServiceMaster, Terminix, TruGreen, Merry Maids, ServiceMaster Clean, American Home Shield, AmeriSpec and Furniture Medic. We have not sought to register or protect every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are or may be used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or 20 Table of Contents activities infringe their intellectual property rights. Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from operating our business in the manner in which we have in the past, including preventing us from providing certain services under our recognized brand names, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruptions or security failures in our information technology systems could create liability for us and/or limit our ability to effectively monitor, operate and control our operations and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor, operate and control our operations. Changes or modifications to our information technology systems could cause disruption to our operations or cause challenges with respect to our compliance with laws, regulations or other applicable standards. For example, delays, higher than expected costs or unsuccessful implementation of new information technology systems could adversely impact our operations. In addition, any disruption in or failure of our information technology systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, including by limiting our capacity to monitor, operate and control our operations effectively. Failures of our information technology systems could also lead to violations of privacy laws, regulations, trade guidelines or practices related to our customers and employees. If our disaster recovery plans do not work as anticipated, or if the third party vendors to which we have outsourced certain information technology, contact center or other services fail to fulfill their obligations to us, our operations may be adversely impacted and any of these circumstances could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Future acquisitions could impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We plan to continue to pursue opportunities to expand through selective acquisitions. Our ability to make acquisitions at reasonable prices and to integrate acquired businesses is an important factor in our future growth. We cannot ensure that we will be able to manage or integrate acquired businesses successfully and/or retain customers of the acquired businesses. Any inability on our part to consolidate and manage growth from acquired businesses could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and there can be no assurance that any acquisition that we make will provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses, including the diversion of resources needed to integrate new businesses, technologies, products, personnel or systems; the inability to retain employees, customers and suppliers; the assumption of actual or contingent liabilities (including those relating to the environment); failure to effectively and timely adopt and adhere to our internal control processes and other policies; write-offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets; unanticipated liabilities relating to acquired businesses; and potential expense associated with litigation with sellers of such businesses. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to various restrictive covenants that could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time, we enter into noncompetition agreements or other restrictive covenants (e.g., exclusivity, take or pay and non-solicitation), including in connection with business dispositions or strategic contracts, that restrict us from entering into lines of business or operating in certain geographic areas into which we may desire to expand our business. We also are subject to various non-solicitation and no-hire covenants that may restrict our ability to solicit potential customers or employees. To the extent that such restrictive covenants prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities, or if we fail to comply with them, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain trained workers and third party contractors. Our future success and financial performance depend substantially on our ability to attract, retain and train workers and attract and retain third party contractors and ensure third party contractor compliance with our policies and standards. Our ability to conduct our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force, including on a seasonal basis, which may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including immigration reform or lack thereof, which may negatively impact the number of foreign nationals available to engage in seasonal employment. In the event of a labor shortage, we could experience difficulty in delivering our services in a high-quality or timely manner and could be forced to increase wages in order to attract and retain employees, which would result in higher operating costs and reduced profitability. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges. We have significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, such as trade names, and have incurred impairment charges in the past with respect to goodwill and intangible assets, as well as in connection with our disposition activities. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, goodwill and intangible assets that are not amortized are subject to assessment for impairment by applying a fair-value based test annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment, including: •significant adverse changes in the business climate, including economic or financial conditions; •significant adverse changes in expected operating results; •adverse actions or assessments by regulators; •unanticipated competition; •loss of key personnel; and •a current expectation that more-likely-than-not (e.g., a likelihood that is more than 50 percent) a reporting unit or intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of. 22 Table of Contents For example, in 2011 we recorded pre-tax non-cash impairment charges of $36.7 million to reduce the carrying value of TruGreen's trade name as a result of our annual impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets. Additionally, as a result of the decision to sell TruGreen LandCare, we recorded a $34.2 million impairment charge ($21.0 million, net of tax) in the first quarter of 2011 to reduce the carrying value of TruGreen LandCare's assets to their estimated fair value less cost to sell in accordance with applicable accounting standards. Upon completion of the sale, a $6.2 million loss on sale ($1.9 million, net of tax) was recorded in loss from discontinued operations, net of tax. In the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $46.9 million, of which $43.0 million was related to the remaining goodwill at TruGreen LandCare and $3.9 million related to TruGreen LandCare's trade name. In 2009, we recorded pre-tax non-cash impairment charges of $28.0 million (of which $1.4 million was related to the trade name of TruGreen LandCare) to reduce the carrying value of trade names as a result of our annual impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets. Based upon future economic and financial market conditions, the operating performance of our reporting units and other factors, including those listed above, future impairment charges could be incurred. All impairments related to TruGreen LandCare are recorded in (loss) income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes. Our franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them. Each franchising brand also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses. As a result, the ultimate success of any franchise operation rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and a brand's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees could become strained if we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the required standards. It is also possible that creditors, or other claimants, of a franchisee, could, in the event such creditors and claimants cannot collect from our franchisee or otherwise, attempt to make claims against us under various legal theories. These claims could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in accounting, securities and other rules or interpretations could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Changes in accounting, securities and other rules applicable to our business, including proposed revisions to the rules related to accounting for leases and reserves for, and disclosures relating to, legal contingencies, could (i) affect our reported results of operations and financial position, (ii) potentially decrease the comparability of our financial statements to others within our industry and (iii) increase our liability exposure. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Our Debt We are indirectly owned and controlled by the Equity Sponsors, and their interests as equity holders may conflict with the interests of our other stakeholders. We are indirectly owned and controlled by the Equity Sponsors, who have the ability to control our policies and operations. The directors appointed by affiliates of the Equity Sponsors and their affiliates are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue or repurchase capital stock, pay dividends and incur or repurchase debt. The interests of the Equity 23 Table of Contents Sponsors may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our other stakeholders. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our Equity Sponsors might conflict with the interests of holders of our debt. In addition, our Equity Sponsors may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to our business or the holders of our debt. Furthermore, the Equity Sponsors may own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. One or more of the Equity Sponsors also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $3.876 billion of consolidated indebtedness, and, after effectiveness on February 13, 2012 of the Extension Amendment dated as of January 30, 2012 (the "Extension Amendment") and the Increase Supplement dated as of January 30, 2012 (the "Increase Supplement"), we have available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $447.7 million through July 24, 2013, $324.2 million from July 25, 2013 through July 24, 2014 and $265.2 million from July 25, 2014 through January 31, 2017. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to holders of our debt and other stakeholders in the Company. Because of our substantial debt: •our ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing could be limited; •our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt may be impaired in the future; •a large portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes; •we are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including under the Credit Facilities, and certain floating rate operating and capital leases are at variable rates of interest; •it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such debt; •we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less debt or with comparable debt on more favorable terms and, as a result, they may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; •our ability to refinance debt may be limited or the associated costs may increase; •our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited; and •we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is, among other things, necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our businesses. 24 Table of Contents Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our debt securities do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. After effectiveness on February 13, 2012 of the Extension Amendment and the Increase Supplement, we have available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $447.7 million through July 24, 2013, $324.2 million from July 25, 2013 through July 24, 2014 and $265.2 million from July 25, 2014 through January 31, 2017. The Credit Facilities permit additional borrowings beyond those commitments under certain circumstances. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on our debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our debt or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. As a holding company, we have no independent operations or material assets other than our ownership of equity interests in our subsidiaries, and we depend on our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses, including satisfying our obligations under our debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions and dividends to us, which, in turn, depends on their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, general business conditions and any legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends to which they may be subject, many of which may be beyond our control, and as described under "Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry" above. The payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our subsidiaries that are regulated as insurance, home service, or similar companies is subject to applicable state law limitations. If we cannot receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our obligations to fund general corporate expenses or service our debt obligations. Our insurance subsidiaries and home services and similar subsidiaries (through which we conduct our American Home Shield business) are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under the laws and regulations of the states in which they operate. Among other things, such laws and regulations require certain such subsidiaries to maintain minimum capital and net worth requirements and may limit the amount of ordinary and extraordinary dividends and other payments that these subsidiaries can pay to us. For example, certain states prohibit payment by these subsidiaries to the Company of dividends in excess of ten percent of their capital as of the most recent year end, as determined in accordance with prescribed insurance accounting practices in those states. Of the $226.2 million as of December 31, 2011, which we identify as being potentially unavailable to be paid to the Company by its subsidiaries, approximately $183.3 million is held by our home services and insurance subsidiaries and is subject to these regulatory limitations on the payment of funds to us. Such limitations will be in effect through the end of 2012, at which time new limitations will be calculated based on regulatory capital levels as of December 31, 2012. The remainder of the $226.2 million, or $42.9 million, is related to amounts that the Company's management does not consider readily available to be used to service the Company's indebtedness due, among other reasons, to the Company's cash management practices and working capital needs at various subsidiaries. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be 25 Table of Contents sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on January 31, 2017, and the Term Facilities will mature on July 24, 2014. The 10.75 percent senior notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") will mature on July 15, 2015, and the $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8 percent senior notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") will mature on February 15, 2020. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our debt or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of debt. It is our understanding that a significant amount of global indebtedness related to the leveraged buy-out boom will mature between 2012 and 2015, when significant portions of our debt are scheduled to mature. There is no assurance that the debt markets will be able to absorb all of the potential refinancing during that time period. Moreover, in 2008 and 2009, the global credit markets suffered a significant contraction, including the failure of some large financial institutions. This resulted in a significant decline in the credit markets and the overall availability of credit. Market disruptions, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, as well as our significant debt levels, may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to refinance our obligations as they become due. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or access additional credit, or if short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, our ability to finance current operations and meet our short-term and long-term obligations could be adversely affected. If we cannot refinance our debt, we could face substantial liquidity problems, causing us to become bankrupt or insolvent, and we might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate those sales, or if we do, what the timing of the sales will be, whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due or whether we would receive fair value for such assets. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could reduce our profitability. A significant portion of our outstanding debt, including debt under the Credit Facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our debt and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2011, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in approximately an $11.0 million change in the annual interest expense on our Term Facilities after considering the impact of the interest rate swaps into which we have entered. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn as of December 31, 2011, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in approximately a $4.4 million change in annual interest expense on our Revolving Credit Facility. Our Term Facilities are scheduled to mature in July 2014, and we will need to refinance such debt prior to such date. Refinancing the Term Facilities at current market interest rates would result in an increase to the current rate, and therefore lead to higher interest expense. We are also exposed to increases in interest rates with respect to our arrangement enabling us to transfer an interest in certain receivables to unrelated third parties. Assuming all available amounts were transferred under this arrangement, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in approximately a $0.5 million change in annual interest expense with respect to this arrangement. We are also exposed to increases in interest rates with respect to our floating rate operating leases, and a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in approximately 26 Table of Contents a $0.3 million change in annual rent expense with respect to such operating leases. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial debt and floating rate operating leases. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. The Credit Facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: •incur additional debt (including guarantees of other debt); •pay dividends or make other restricted payments, including investments; •prepay or amend the terms of certain outstanding debt; •enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; •sell certain assets, or, in the case of any borrower under the Credit Facilities, consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; •create liens; •in the case of the Term Loan Facility, enter into agreements restricting dividends or other distributions by subsidiaries to ServiceMaster; and •in the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, make acquisitions, enter into agreements restricting our ability to incur liens securing the Revolving Credit Facility and change our business. The indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes also contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: •incur additional debt; •repurchase certain debt; •pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; •make investments; •create certain liens; •transfer or sell assets; •merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; •create restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to make payments to us; •designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and •enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. The restrictions in the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes, the Credit Facilities and the instruments governing our other debt may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, at maturity or otherwise, on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the Credit Facilities, the indentures governing the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes and the instruments governing our other 27 Table of Contents debt may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control including credit or capital market disruptions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Credit Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under the Credit Facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under the Credit Facilities or our other outstanding indebtedness. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt currently has a non-investment grade rating, and any rating or outlook assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely, or outlook changed, by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating or outlook, such as adverse changes to our business, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings or outlook will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. Any future lowering of our ratings or change in outlook likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 