ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General Risk Statement An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial results and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we believe that it is possible that in any given quarter or fiscal year our operating results could differ from the expectations of public market analysts or investors. The risks that we have highlighted here represent all the material risks known to us, but they are not the only ones that we face. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our stock could decline and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We operate a global business that exposes us to additional currency, economic, regulatory and tax risks. A significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Our success delivering solutions internationally and competing in international markets is subject to our ability to manage various risks and difficulties, including, but not limited to: · our ability to effectively manage our employees at remote locations who are operating in different business environments from the United States; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · trade restrictions, political instability, disruptions in financial markets, and deterioration of economic conditions; · compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws and regulations; · variations and changes in laws applicable to our operations in different jurisdictions, including enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights ; · compliance with export regulations, tariffs and other barriers; · timely collecting of accounts receivable from foreign customers; · our ability to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; and · potentially adverse tax consequences in connection with repatriating funds. Approximately forty percent of our revenue is transacted in non-U.S. Dollar denominated currencies (e.g. British Pound Sterling, Swiss Franc and Euro). As a result, when the U.S. Dollar strengthens, our revenue, when converted to U.S. Dollars, is reduced. At the same time, with more than 50% of our operating expenses originating overseas, the strengthening dollar conversely lowers expenses outside of the U.S. Although this has provided some defense against currency fluctuations for our bottom line results, we may not be able to maintain this ratio of revenue to expense in the future. In addition, we may not be able to sustain or increase our international revenue or repatriate cash without incurring substantial risks involving floating currency exchange rates, our ability to recover or apply withholding taxes remitted to foreign governments, and income tax expenses. Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse impact on our international operations and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there have been proposals to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flow. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle, and a longer sales cycle could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is impacted by the length of our sales cycles. Our customers have relatively complex businesses and the purchase of large communications solutions used for enterprise-wide, mission-critical purposes, involve significant capital expenditures and lengthy implementation plans. Prospective customers often take a long period of time to evaluate our products and services and require us to spend substantial time, effort and money educating them about our solutions. The purchase of the types of products and services we offer typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s organization. This process often results in a lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging between three and twelve months. The 8 Table of Contents lengthening of our sales cycle could reduce growth in our revenue and contribute to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. Likewise, customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews may cause potential customers to delay or forego a purchase, making it even more difficult for us to forecast the timing and size of our contracts. In addition, our sales opportunities in any given quarter and year typically include a few high value opportunities. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Mergers and acquisitions of large communications companies, as well as the formation of new alliances, have resulted in a constantly changing marketplace for our products and services. Purchasing delays and pricing pressures associated with these changes are common. In addition, many of the companies in the communications industry have kept capital expenditures at historically low levels in response to changes in the communications marketplace; some companies have declared bankruptcy, cancelled contracts, delayed payments to their suppliers or delayed additional purchases. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts, or the loss of a significant customer, could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our products are complex and have a lengthy implementation process; unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs and delayed payments. Implementing our solutions can be a relatively complex and lengthy process since we typically customize these solutions for each customer’s unique environment. Often our customers may also require rapid deployment of our software solutions, resulting in pressure on us to meet demanding delivery and implementation schedules. Inability to meet these demanding schedules, or quality issues resulting from accelerated delivery schedules may result in customer dissatisfaction and/or damage our reputation, which could materially harm our business. The majority of our existing contracts provide for acceptance testing by the customer, which can be a lengthy process. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs, delayed payments, and deferral of revenue recognition. In addition, if our software contains defects or we otherwise fail to satisfy acceptance criteria within prescribed times, the customer may be entitled to liquidated damages or to cancel its contract and receive a refund of all or a portion of amounts paid or other amounts as damages, which could exceed related contract revenue and which could result in a future charge to earnings. Any failure or delay in achieving final acceptance of our software and services could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The success of our business depends on continued growth in the wireless services industry and growth in demand for connected devices. The future success of our business depends upon continued new subscriber growth and growth in demand for connected devices. While we believe new subscriber growth in the global market will continue and the demand for connected devices will also continue to grow for the foreseeable future, we cannot accurately predict the extent of the increase, if at all. If there is a slowdown in subscriber growth in the wireless services industry or the demand for connected devices were to stabilize or decline, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are a relatively small company with a limited number of products and staff. Sales fluctuations and employee turnover may adversely affect our business. We are a relatively small company. Consequently, compared to larger companies, sales fluctuations could have a greater impact on our revenue and profitability on a quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year basis and a delayed contract could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year-to-year. Over the last three years, we have undertaken two reductions in our workforce in response to our Asset Sale and acquisition of Telespree. In addition, as a small company we have limited staff and are heavily reliant on certain key personnel to operate our business. If a key employee were to leave the company it could have a material impact on our business and results of operations as we might not have sufficient depth in our staffing to fill the role that was previously being performed. A delay in filling the vacated position could put a strain on existing personnel or result in a failure to satisfy our contractual obligations or to effectively implement our internal controls, and materially harm our business. 9 Table of Contents Because our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility of the price of our common stock. These quarterly and annual fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: · the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue; · our rate of progress under our contracts; · foreign exchange fluctuations; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · changes in the terms and rates related to the renewal of support agreements; · the mix of products and services sold; · the timing of third-party contractors’ delivery of software and hardware; · level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; · changes in our strategy; · general economic conditions. We base our operating expenses and capital investment budgets on expected sales and revenue and many of our expenses, such as lease expenses and personnel costs, are relatively fixed in the short term. Variations in the rate and timing of conversion of our sales prospects into actual revenue could cause us to plan or budget inaccurately and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Any significant shortfall from anticipated levels of demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Based on these factors, we believe our future quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. Furthermore, we believe that in future reporting periods if our operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, it is possible that the market price of our common stock could decrease. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage our liquidity. We paid approximately $4.1 million in dividends/return of capital to our stockholders in 2013 and $0.8 million in cash to acquire Telespree. Our cash forecast indicates that we will have sufficient liquidity to cover anticipated operating costs for at least the next twelve months, but this could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, or an unexpected adverse event, or combination of events occurs. If the timing of cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may require access to additional funds to support our business objectives through a credit facility or possibly the issuance of additional equity. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us and not dilutive. The market for our service activation products is mature and the market for our DSA product is still developing. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological change and if we do not adapt to rapid technological change, we could lose customers or market share. The market for our service activation product is mature. Customer demand for our DSA product and enhancements to our DSA product is still developing. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in carrier requirements and preferences and frequent new service offerings. The introduction of products that incorporate new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To compete successfully, we must continue to design, develop and sell enhancements to existing products and new products that provide higher levels of performance and reliability in a timely manner, take advantage of technological advancements and changes in industry standards and respond to new customer requirements. Investments in new products are speculative. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we 10 Table of Contents have experienced historically. If we are unable to identify new product opportunities, sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. Our cloud strategy, or Software as a Service (SaaS), may not be successful. As a result of our recent acquisition of Telespree, we now provide some of our products as a SaaS implementation and we intend providing our DSA solution as a cloud offering in the future. The success of our cloud offering is dependent upon continued acceptance by and growth in subscribers of cloud-based services in general and acceptance of our solutions as cloud-based solutions by our carrier customers. Our cloud strategy will continue to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain profitability. Whether we are successful in our cloud strategy depends on our execution in a number of areas, which may or may not be within our control, including continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based offerings, continued growth and demand for cloud-based offerings and ensuring that our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. Our cloud strategy also may fail to achieve success if other companies offering cloud-based services experience data loss, security breaches or service reliability issues that cause consumers to become less willing to accept cloud-based services in general. If we are unable to properly supervise our software development subsidiary in India, or if political or other uncertainties interfere, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts. In 2004, we formed Evolving Systems India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Evolving Systems, Inc. We have experienced a high level of turnover with our Indian development staff as a result of strong competition for technology-based personnel in India. In addition, salary levels in India are steadily increasing, reducing the competitive advantages associated with offshore labor. If we are unable to effectively manage the Evolving Systems India development staff and/or we continue to experience high levels of staff turnover, we may fail to provide quality software in a timely fashion, which could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our customer contracts. Furthermore, political changes and uncertainties in India could negatively impact the business climate there. As a result, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes or challenges to the regulations of the communication industry could hurt the market for our products and services. Our customers may require, or we may find it necessary or advisable, to modify our products or services to address actual or anticipated changes in regulations affecting our customers. This could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions. Any compliance failures or changes in such regulations could, likewise, materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation in the communications industry may impact our financial performance. The global communications industry has experienced and continues to experience significant consolidation. These consolidations have caused us to lose customers and may result in fewer potential customers requiring OSS solutions in the future. In addition, combining companies may re-evaluate their OSS solutions and their capital expenditures and may choose a competitive OSS solution used by one of the combining companies. As our customers become larger, they generally have stronger purchasing power, which can result in reduced prices for our products, lower margins on our products and longer sales cycles. All of these factors can have a negative impact on our financial performance, particularly in any fiscal quarter. Because of the uncertainty resulting from these consolidations and the variations in our quarterly operating results, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast our quarterly and annual revenue and we do not provide revenue guidance. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. We earn a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers in the communications industry. The loss of any significant customer, delays in delivery or acceptance of any of our products by a customer, delays in the performance of services for a customer, or delays in collection of customer receivables could harm our business and operating results to a greater degree than other companies with a broader customer base. 11 Table of Contents Many of our products and services are sold on a fixed-price basis. If we incur budget overruns this may reduce our profitability. Currently, a large portion of our revenue is from fixed-price contracts and we expect this will continue. These contracts specify certain obligations and deliverables we must meet regardless of the actual costs we incur. Projects done on a fixed-price basis are subject to budget overruns. On occasion, we have experienced budget overruns, resulting in lower than anticipated margins. We may incur similar budget overruns in the future, including overruns that result in losses on these contracts. If we incur budget overruns, our margins may be harmed, thereby affecting our overall profitability. Percentage-of-completion accounting used for most of our projects can result in overstated or understated profits or losses. The revenue for most of our contracts is accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenue and profits to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed and the amounts of any probable unapproved change orders. Our failure to accurately estimate these often subjective factors could result in reduced profits or losses for certain contracts. The communications industry is highly competitive and if our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance or price, our customers could purchase products and services from our competitors. Our primary markets are intensely competitive and we face continuous demand for improved product performance, new product features and reduced prices, as well as intense pressure to accelerate the release of new products and product enhancements. Our existing and potential competitors include many large domestic and international companies, including some competitors that have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technological, marketing, distribution and other resources, larger installed customer bases and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. In addition, some of the network equipment manufacturers’ next generation solutions address some of the benefits provided by our DSA solution. Customers also may offer competitive products or services in the future since customers who have purchased solutions from us are not precluded from competing with us. Many telecommunications companies have large internal development organizations, which develop software solutions and provide services similar to the products and services we provide. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on numerous factors, including the quality and price competitiveness of our products and services compared to those of our competitors, the emergence of new industry standards and technical innovations and our ability to respond to those changes. Some of these factors are within our control, and others are not. A variety of potential actions by our competitors, including a reduction of product prices or increased marketing and promotion, accelerated introduction of new or enhanced products, or cooperative relationships among competitors and their strategic partners, could negatively impact the sales of our products and we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products. Revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or to properly identify and address the demands of new markets. This is particularly true in new markets where standards are not yet established. Our failure to adapt to emerging market demands, respond to regulatory and technological changes or compete successfully with existing and new competitors would materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees and the market for skilled workers in our industry is very competitive. We may not be able to retain personnel or to hire additional personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Because of the complexity of our software solutions, a significant time lag exists between the hiring date of technical and sales personnel and the time when they become fully productive. We have at times experienced high employee turnover and difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel. Our failure to retain personnel or to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect our business by impacting our ability to develop new products, to complete our projects and secure new contracts. Our products are complex and may have errors that are not detected until deployment. Resolving warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. The provisions of our agreements with our customers are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising out of the use of, or defects in, our products, which vary from customer to customer, and it is possible that these limitations of liability provisions may not be effective. In addition, to the extent that any successful product liability claim is not covered by our errors and omissions insurance or exceeds the coverage under our policy, we may be required to pay for a claim. This could be expensive, particularly since our software products may be used in critical business applications. As we may subcontract the development of deliverables under customer contracts, we could be required to indemnify customers for work performed by subcontractors. Depending upon the nature of the customer indemnification, the potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements may be unlimited. We may be able to recover from a subcontractor the 12 Table of Contents amounts we are required to pay to customers due to the subcontractor’s failure to perform. Defending against a product liability claim, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and require the time and attention of key management personnel, either of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business reputation could be harmed by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or the eventual outcome of these claims. Compromises to our privacy safeguards or disclosure of confidential information could impact our business. During the course of providing our products and services we may collect names, addresses, telephone numbers, credit card data and other personal identification information, or “PII”. Our treatment of such information is subject to contractual restrictions and federal, state, and foreign data privacy laws and regulations. We strive to limit the amount of PII we collect and/or store and we have implemented steps designed to protect against unauthorized access to such information but because of the inherent risks and complexities involved in protecting this information, particularly if we store such information in a cloud implementation, there can be no guarantee that the steps we have taken will be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation or improper disclosure of such PII. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may unintentionally release PII or otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. If misappropriation or disclosure of PII were to occur, our business could be harmed through reputational injury, litigation and possible damages claimed by the affected end customers or potential fines from regulatory authorities. Our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations. Our measures to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. Protecting our global intellectual property rights is difficult. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have 15 patents in the U.S. on elements of our DSA and mobile broadband enablement products and patents pending in other countries on elements of our DSA and IMC products. In addition, we have registered or filed for registration of certain of our trademarks. Our patent portfolio is relatively small and given the cost of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to patent certain inventions that later become important. There is also the possibility that our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate and a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our proprietary rights. If our intellectual property protection proves inadequate, we may lose our competitive advantage and our future financial results may suffer. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, or that we have not complied with their license requirements and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. It is also possible that our business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties may assert infringement claims against us. Those claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue of their own, and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. We could incur substantial costs in defending against any infringement claim and we could be required to develop non-infringing technology, obtain licenses, or to cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. Adverse publicity related to any intellectual property litigation also could harm the sale of our products and damage our competitive position. Certain software developed or used by Evolving Systems may include so called “open source” software that is made available under an open source software license which may impose obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works based on the open source software. Certain licenses impose obligations that could require us to make source code for a derivative work available to the public or license the derivative work under a particular type of open source software license, rather than the license terms we customarily use to protect our software. There is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the terms addressing the extent to which software incorporating open source software may be considered a derivative work subject to these licenses. We believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable open source licenses. However, if the owner of any open source software were to successfully establish that we had not complied with the terms of an open source license for a particular product that includes such open source software, we may be forced to release the source code for that derivative work to the public or cease distribution of that work. 13 Table of Contents Disruptions from terrorist activities, geopolitical conditions or military actions may disrupt our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and throughout the world and acts of war may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Abrupt political changes and armed conflict pose a risk of economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs and add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. We are unable to predict whether war, political unrest and the threat of terrorism will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We face risks associated with doing business through local partners. In some countries, because of local customs and regulations or for language reasons, we do business with our customers through local partners who resell our products and services, with or without value-added services. This can cause delays in closing contracts because of the increased complexity of having another party involved in negotiations. In addition, where the local partner provides additional software, hardware and/or services to the end-user customer, our products and services may only be a small portion of the total solution. As a result, payments made to us, as well as conditions surrounding acceptance, may be impacted by factors that are out of our control. There may also be delays in getting payments made by the end-user customer through the reseller. We have experienced delays in collecting from resellers and this situation may arise again in the future, negatively impacting our cash flows. Doing business through local partners may also increase our risks under anti-bribery regulations, discussed below. We face special risks associated with doing business in highly corrupt environments. Our international business operations include projects in developing countries and countries torn by conflict. To the extent we operate outside the U.S., we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from paying or offering anything of value to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, or otherwise receiving discretionary favorable treatment of any kind. To the extent we do business through Evolving Systems UK, we are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. Under these regulations, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners and agents, even if such parties act without our knowledge. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or the Bribery Act of 2010 (whether directly or through acts of others, intentionally or through inadvertence) or other anti-bribery legislation could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance, situations outside of our control may arise that could potentially put us in violation of anti-bribery legislation inadvertently and thus negatively impact our business. Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. Increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks have resulted in an increase in information security risks in recent years. Hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack products and services and gain access to networks and data centers. A substantial portion of our software development and customer support is provided out of our India facility, which may be subject to increased risk of power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. If we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations. Additionally, these systems contain valuable proprietary and confidential information and a breach, including cyber security breaches, could result in disruptions of our internal systems and business applications, impairment of our ability to provide services to our customers, product development delays, harm to our competitive position from the compromise of confidential business information, or other negative impacts on our business. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, many of our services do not have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that occur from a system outage. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue and margins. We may seek to acquire companies or technologies which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have made, and in the future intend to make, acquisitions of companies, technologies or products which we believe may enhance our market position or product portfolio. However, we cannot be sure that any acquisition will ultimately enhance our products or strengthen our competitive position. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: 14 Table of Contents · diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters and distraction to employees; · inability to realize anticipated benefits from the purchased technologies; · ineffective integration of operations, technologies, products or employees of the acquired companies. · inability to capitalize on new markets; · inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies; · unknown, underestimated and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities from the acquired company; · excess facilities; and · increased expenses. In addition, future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the reduction of cash available for operations and the incurrence of debt. Sales of large blocks of our stock may result in the reduction in the market price of our stock and make it more difficult to raise funds in the future. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that such sales will occur could also produce this effect. We currently have several stockholders who own large percentages of our stock. To the extent we continue to have one or more stockholders who own a large percentage of our stock and those stockholders chose to liquidate their holdings, it may have a dramatic impact on the market price of our stock. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As a result of operating as a smaller public company, we may experience additional challenges in complying with rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with new and ongoing regulatory initiatives. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and are currently developing additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2011. Our management and other personnel have, and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Establishment of effective internal controls is further complicated because we are a relatively small company with global operations, and multiple locations and IT systems. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal controls in 2011 and while we took steps to remediate the weakness, we may identify additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Disclosures of material weaknesses in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles or tax rules and regulations, could adversely affect our results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). In 2013 we adopted two accounting standards as a result of changes and clarifications made by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) which did not affect our financial position or results of operation, but it is possible that future requirements, could change our current application of U.S. GAAP, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial positions or 15 Table of Contents results of operation. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. We regularly assess our implementation of applicable accounting principles and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, but we are a relatively small company and our business is complex; there can be no assurance that the final determination of any tax authority, upon examination of our income tax returns, will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Certain provisions of our charter documents, employment arrangements and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could continue to make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include the following: · our stockholders cannot take action by written consent; and · we have advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 and certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by discouraging or preventing takeover attempts that might result in the payment of a premium price to our stockholders. Our named executive officers have entered into agreements with us that contain a change in control provision. These agreements generally provide for acceleration on vesting of options, 50% upon a change in control (as defined in such agreement) if the executive officer remains employed with the new entity, or 100% in the event the executive officer’s employment is terminated. The acceleration of vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure and may have the effect of discouraging a merger proposal, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of us. Our Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of vesting under certain circumstances. Upon certain changes in control of us, vesting on some options awarded to directors may be accelerated. In addition, the successor corporation may assume outstanding stock awards or substitute equivalent stock awards. If the successor corporation refuses to do so, such stock awards will become fully vested and exercisable for a period of 15 days after notice from us but the options will terminate if not exercised during that period. As noted above, the acceleration on vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, that impact the communications industry, could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Unsettled financial markets, higher interest rates, inflation, levels of unemployment and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to these conditions, negative financial news and declines in income and asset values. Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in: · difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; · pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; · lengthening sales cycles and slowing deployments; · increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities; · increased risk of charges relating to write off of goodwill and other intangible assets; 16 Table of Contents · customer and reseller financial difficulty and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable. We are unable to predict how long the current economic downturn will last and the magnitude of its effect on our business and results of operations. If these conditions continue, or further weaken, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 