ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Impact of Long Sales Cycle; Sales of our products typically require significant review and internal approval processes by our customers over an extended period of time. Interruptions in such process due to economic downturns, consolidations or otherwise could result in the loss of our sale or deferral of revenue into later periods and adversely affect our financial performance. Large communications solutions used for enterprise-wide, mission-critical purposes, involve significant capital expenditures and lengthy implementation plans. Prospective customers typically commit significant resources to the technical evaluation of our products and services and require us to spend substantial time, effort and money providing education regarding our solutions. This evaluation process often results in an extensive and lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging between three and twelve months, making it difficult for us to forecast the timing and magnitude of our contracts. For example, customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews may cause potential customers to delay or forego a purchase. In addition, our TSA and DSA sales opportunities in any given quarter typically include a few high value opportunities. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Mergers and acquisitions of large communications companies, as well as the formation of new alliances, have resulted in a constantly changing marketplace for our products and services. Purchasing delays and pricing pressures associated with these changes are common. In addition, many of the companies in the communications industry have kept capital expenditures at historically low levels in response to changes in the communications marketplace; some companies have declared bankruptcy, cancelled contracts, delayed payments to their suppliers or delayed additional purchases. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts, or the loss of a significant customer, could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Following the sale of our Numbering Business, we are a smaller, less diversified company that will be more adversely affected by sales fluctuations, limited staff and employee turnover. Our revenue is smaller following the sale of our Numbering Business in July 2011. Consequently, sales fluctuations could have a greater impact on our revenue and profitability on a quarter-to-quarter basis and a delayed contract could cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition, following the sale of our Numbering Business we reduced our staff and as a smaller company we are heavily reliant on certain key personnel. We may not have sufficient staff to effectively operate our business. In addition, if a key employee were to leave the company it could have a material impact on our business and results of operations as we might not have sufficient depth in our staffing to fill the role that was previously being performed. A delay in filling the vacated position could put a strain on existing personnel or result in a failure to satisfy our contractual obligations or to effectively implement our internal controls, and materially harm our business. Because our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility of the price of our common stock. These quarterly and annual fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: · the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue; · our rate of progress under our contracts; · foreign exchange fluctuations; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · changes in the terms and rates related to the renewal of support agreements; 6 Table of Contents · the mix of products and services sold; · the timing of third-party contractors’ delivery of software and hardware; · level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; · changes in our strategy; · general economic conditions. Personnel costs are a significant component of our budgeted expense levels and, therefore, our expenses are, to a degree, variable based upon our expectations regarding future revenue. As discussed above, our revenue is difficult to forecast and our sales cycle and the size and timing of significant contracts vary substantially among customers. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Any significant shortfall from anticipated levels of demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Based on these factors, we believe our future quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. Furthermore, we believe that in future reporting periods if our operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, it is possible that the market price of our common stock could decrease. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage our liquidity. Our cash forecast indicates that we will have sufficient liquidity to cover anticipated operating costs for at least the next twelve months, but this could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, or an unexpected adverse event, or combination of events occurs. Therefore, if the timing of cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may require access to additional funds to support our business objectives through a credit facility or possibly the issuance of additional equity. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us and not dilutive. Because our investments are concentrated in the debt securities of a single issuer, adverse events affecting that issuer are likely to have a greater negative impact on us than would occur if our investments were diversified among a larger group of issuers or securities. Our investment policy requires investments to be rated B- or better. Currently, all of our investments are concentrated in the debt securities of a single issuer, and as a result, adverse events affecting that issuer are likely to have a greater negative impact on us, including a greater risk of loss of our investment, than would occur if our investments were diversified among a larger group of issuers or securities. Any significant future declines in the market values of that issuer’s senior secured debt or common stock, or any significant adverse developments in that issuer’s business, industry, operations or financial condition could materially adversely affect the value of our investment, the issuer’s ability to repay its obligations under the notes, or our financial condition and operating results. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of our long-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If the issuer defaults on its obligations under the notes, the guarantors may be unable to repay the amounts due and the collateral securing the notes may have insufficient value to allow us to obtain a return of our investment in the notes. The senior secured notes are not publicly traded and the issuer has no obligation to register the notes for resale. As a result, we may not be able to resell the notes at a favorable price, or at all, if and when we wish to do so. The market for our service activation products is mature and we may not be able to successfully develop new products to remain competitive. The market for our service activation product is mature and we may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities. If we are unable to identify new product opportunities, sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. The market for our DSA product is uncertain and we may not be able to generate sufficient demand for our DSA product and new products to grow our business. We are still in the process of developing customer demand for our DSA product and the market for enhancements to our DSA product and for new products is uncertain; we are still in the early stages of developing customer demand for these products. Our current strategy is heavily reliant on achieving increased sales of our DSA product, enhancements to our DSA product and new products and if we are unable to achieve market acceptance of these products our sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to properly supervise our software development subsidiary in India, or if political or other uncertainties interfere, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business could be materially harmed. In February 2004, we formed Evolving Systems India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Evolving Systems, Inc. We have experienced a high level of turnover with our Indian development staff as a result of strong competition for technology-based personnel in India. In addition, salary levels in India are steadily increasing, reducing the competitive advantages associated with offshore labor. If we are unable to effectively manage the Evolving Systems India development staff and/or we continue to experience high levels of staff turnover, we may fail to provide quality software in a timely fashion, which could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our customer contracts. Furthermore, political changes and uncertainties in India could negatively impact the business climate there. As a result, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional currency, economic, regulatory and tax risks. A significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Our international operations are subject to the risk factors inherent in the conduct of international business, including: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Acts and other anti-bribery laws and regulations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · compliance with export regulations, tariffs and other barriers; · political and economic instability; · limited intellectual property protection; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and · potentially adverse tax consequences in connection with repatriating funds. Approximately half of our revenue is transacted in non- U. S. Dollar denominated currencies (e.g. British Pound Sterling and Euro). As a result, when the U.S. Dollar strengthens, our revenue, when converted to U.S. dollars, is reduced. At the same time, with more than 50% of our operating expenses originating overseas, the strengthening dollar conversely lowers expenses outside of the U.S. Although this has provided some defense against currency fluctuations for our bottom line results, we may not be able to maintain this ratio of revenue to expense in the future. In addition, we may not be able to sustain or increase our international revenue or repatriate cash without incurring substantial risks involving floating currency exchange rates and income tax expenses. Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse impact on our international operations and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or challenges to the regulations of the communication industry could hurt the market for our products and services. Our customers may require, or we may find it necessary or advisable, to modify our products or services to address actual or anticipated changes in regulations affecting our customers. This could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions. Any compliance failures or changes in such regulations could, likewise, materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation in the communications industry may impact our financial performance. The communications industry has experienced and continues to experience significant consolidation, both in the United States and internationally. These consolidations have caused us to lose customers and may result in fewer potential customers requiring OSS solutions in the future. In addition, combining companies may re-evaluate their OSS solutions and their capital expenditures and may choose a competitive OSS solution used by one of the combining companies. As our customers become larger, they generally have stronger purchasing power, which can result in reduced prices for our products, lower margins on our products and longer sales cycles. All of these factors can have a negative impact on our financial performance, particularly in any fiscal quarter. Because of the uncertainty resulting from these consolidations and the variations in our quarterly operating results, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast our quarterly and annual revenue and we have discontinued providing revenue guidance. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. We earn a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers in the communications industry. This has been mitigated somewhat by the expansion of our customer base in recent years, but, as noted above, our revenue is smaller following the sale of our Numbering Business and consolidation in the industry continues. The loss of any significant customer, delays in delivery or acceptance of any of our products by a customer, delays in the performance of services for a customer, or delays in 8 Table of Contents collection of customer receivables could harm our business and operating results to a greater degree than other companies with a broader customer base. Our products are complex and have a lengthy implementation process; unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs and delayed payments. Implementing our solutions can be a relatively complex and lengthy process since we typically customize these solutions for each customer’s unique environment. Often our customers may also require rapid deployment of our software solutions, resulting in pressure on us to meet demanding delivery and implementation schedules. Delays in implementation may result in customer dissatisfaction and/or damage our reputation, which could materially harm our business. The majority of our existing contracts provide for acceptance testing by the customer, which can be a lengthy process. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs, delayed payments, and deferral of revenue recognition. In addition, if our software contains defects or we otherwise fail to satisfy acceptance criteria within prescribed times, the customer may be entitled to liquidated damages or to cancel its contract and receive a refund of all or a portion of amounts paid or other amounts as damages, which could exceed related contract revenue and which could result in a future charge to earnings. Any failure or delay in achieving final acceptance of our software and services could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Many of our products and services are sold on a fixed-price basis. If we incur budget overruns, our margins and results of operations may be materially harmed. Currently, a large portion of our revenue is from contracts that are on a fixed-price basis. We anticipate that customers will continue to request we provide software and integration services as a total solution on a fixed-price basis. These contracts specify certain obligations and deliverables we must meet regardless of the actual costs we incur. Projects done on a fixed-price basis are subject to budget overruns. On occasion, we have experienced budget overruns, resulting in lower than anticipated margins. We may incur similar budget overruns in the future, including overruns that result in losses on these contracts. If we incur budget overruns, our margins may be harmed, thereby affecting our overall profitability. Percentage-of-completion accounting used for most of our projects can result in overstated or understated profits or losses. The revenue for most of our contracts is accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenue and profits to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed and the amounts of any probable unapproved change orders. Our failure to accurately estimate these often subjective factors could result in reduced profits or losses for certain contracts. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological change. If we fail to develop or introduce new, reliable and competitive products in a timely fashion, our business may suffer. The market for our products and services is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changes in carrier requirements and preferences and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products that incorporate new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. To compete successfully, we must continue to design, develop and sell enhancements to existing products and new products that provide higher levels of performance and reliability in a timely manner, take advantage of technological advancements and changes in industry standards and respond to new customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in software development, major new product enhancements and new products can require long development and testing periods before they are commercially released and delays in planned delivery dates may occur. We may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities or achieve market acceptance of new products brought to market. In addition, products developed by others may cause our products to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if our products do not perform satisfactorily, or if we have delays in product development, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate. The communications industry is highly competitive and if our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance or price, our customers could purchase products and services from our competitors. Our primary markets are intensely competitive and we face continuous demand for improved product performance, new product features and reduced prices, as well as intense pressure to accelerate the release of new products and product enhancements. Our existing and potential competitors include many large domestic and international companies, including some competitors that have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technological, marketing, distribution and other resources, larger installed customer bases and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. Our principal competitors in activation are Oracle (as a result of its acquisition of Metasolv), Comptel, Intec and Synchronoss Technologies. In mediation, we compete with CSG Systems and Comptel. Our principal competitors in the SIM allocation market include Giesecke & Devrient GmbH, Hewlett-Packard Company and Comptel. Customers also may offer competitive products or services in the future since customers who have purchased solutions 9 Table of Contents from us are not precluded from competing with us. Many telecommunications companies have large internal development organizations, which develop software solutions and provide services similar to the products and services we provide. We also expect competition may increase in the future from application service providers, existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on numerous factors, including the quality and price competitiveness of our products and services compared to those of our competitors, the emergence of new industry standards and technical innovations and our ability to respond to those changes. Some of these factors are within our control, and others are not. A variety of potential actions by our competitors, including a reduction of product prices or increased promotion, announcement or accelerated introduction of new or enhanced products, or cooperative relationships among competitors and their strategic partners, could negatively impact the sales of our products and we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products. Revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or to properly identify and address the demands of new markets. This is particularly true in new markets where standards are not yet established. Our failure to adapt to emerging market demands, respond to regulatory and technological changes or compete successfully with existing and new competitors would materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our ability to manage future expansion, if any, effectively will require us to retain our current personnel and attract, train, motivate and manage new employees successfully, to integrate new management and employees into our overall operations and to continue to improve our operations, financial and management systems. We may not be able to retain personnel or to hire additional personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Because of the complexity of our software solutions, a significant time lag exists between the hiring date of technical and sales personnel and the time when they become fully productive. We have at times experienced high employee turnover and difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel. Our failure to retain personnel or to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect our business by impacting our ability to develop new products, to complete our projects and secure new contracts. Our products are complex and may have errors that are not detected until deployment, and litigation related to warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. Our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising out of the use of, or defects in, our products. These limitations, however, tend to vary from customer to customer and it is possible that these limitations of liability provisions may not be effective. We currently have errors and omissions insurance, which, subject to customary deductibles, exclusions and limits, covers claims resulting from failure of our software products or services to perform the function or to serve the purpose intended. To the extent that any successful product liability claim is not covered by this insurance, we may be required to pay for a claim. This could be expensive, particularly since our software products may be used in critical business applications. Defending such a suit, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and require the time and attention of key management personnel, either of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business reputation could be harmed by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or the eventual outcome of these claims. Our measures to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate and if we fail to protect those rights, our business would be harmed. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have patents pending in the U.S. and other countries on elements of our DSA product. In addition, we have registered or filed for registration of certain of our trademarks. Our patent portfolio is relatively small and given the cost of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to patent certain inventions that later become important. There is also the possibility that a our means of protecting our proprietary right may not be adequate and a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or may develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our proprietary rights. If our intellectual property protection proves inadequate, we may lose our competitive advantage and our future financial results may suffer. 10 Table of Contents In the event that we are infringing upon the proprietary rights of others or violating licenses, we may become subject to infringement or other claims that may prevent us from selling certain products and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. It is also possible that our business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties may assert infringement claims against us. Those claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue of their own, and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we become liable to any third party for infringing its intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain licenses, or to cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and any outcome unfavorable to us could materially harm our business. Furthermore, we do not carry insurance covering infringement claims and we could incur substantial costs in defending against any intellectual property litigation, and these costs could increase significantly if any dispute were to go to trial. Our defense of any litigation, regardless of the merits of the complaint, likely would be time-consuming, costly, and a distraction to our management personnel. Adverse publicity related to any intellectual property litigation also could harm the sale of our products and damage our competitive position. Certain software developed or used by Evolving Systems, as well as certain software acquired in our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K., may include so called “open source” software that is made available under an open source software license. · Such open source software may be made available under licenses, certain of which may impose obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works based on the open source software. Certain licenses impose obligations that could require us to make source code for a derivative work available to the public or license the derivative work under a particular type of open source software license, rather than the license terms we customarily use to protect our software. · There is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the terms addressing the extent to which software incorporating open source software may be considered a derivative work subject to these licenses. We believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable open source licenses. However, if the owner of any open source software were to successfully establish that we had not complied with the terms of an open source license for a particular product that includes such open source software, we may be forced to release the source code for that derivative work to the public or cease distribution of that work. Disruptions from terrorist activities, geopolitical conditions or military actions may disrupt our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and throughout the world and acts of war may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Abrupt political changes and armed conflict pose a risk of economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs and add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. We are unable to predict whether war, political unrest and the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We face risks associated with doing business through local partners. In some countries, because of local customs and regulations or for language reasons, we do business with our customers through local partners who resell our products and services, with or without value-added services. This can cause delays in closing contracts because of the increased complexity of having another party involved in negotiations. In addition, where the local partner provides additional software, hardware and/or services to the end-user customer, our products and services may only be a small portion of the total solution. As a result, payments made to us, as well as conditions surrounding acceptance, may be impacted by factors that are out of our control. There may also be delays in getting payments made by the end-user customer through the reseller. We recently experienced delays in collecting from one of our resellers and this situation may arise again in the future, negatively impacting our cash flows. . Doing business through local partners may also increase our risks under anti-bribery regulations, discussed below. We face special risks associated with doing business in highly corrupt environments. Our international business operations include projects in developing countries and countries torn by conflict. To the extent we operate outside the U.S., we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from paying or offering anything of value to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, or otherwise receiving discretionary favorable treatment of any kind. We may also be subject to anti-bribery laws and regulations of the U.K. and other countries. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners and agents, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA (whether directly or through acts of others, intentionally or through inadvertence) or other anti-bribery legislation could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance, situations 11 Table of Contents outside of our control may arise that could potentially put us in violation of the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation inadvertently and thus negatively impact our business. Our business and operating results will suffer if our systems or networks are compromised orfail. Increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber attacks have resulted in an increase in information security risks in recent years. Our software development and support of our telecommunications customers are increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations. A substantial portion of our software development and customer support is provided out of our India facility, which may be subject to increased risk of power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks and similar events. If we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations. Additionally, these systems contain valuable proprietary and confidential information and a breach, including cyber security breaches, could result in the disclosure or misuse of this information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and/or cause losses. Although we believe that we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, many of our services do not have fully redundant systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may not have adequate business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that occur from a system outage. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue, performance and business prospects. The trading price of our stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, merger and acquisition activity, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, general stock market and economic considerations and other events or factors. This may continue in the future. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of stock of many technology companies and often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. As a result of the foregoing factors, our common stock may not trade at or higher than its current price. Sales of large blocks of our stock may result in the reduction in the market price of our stock and make it more difficult to raise funds in the future. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that such sales will occur could also produce this effect. We currently have several stockholders who own large percentages of our stock. To the extent we continue to have one or more stockholders who own a large percentage of our stock and those stockholders chose to liquidate their holdings, it may have a dramatic impact on the market price of our stock. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities, the compliance with which requires substantial amounts of management time and company resources. We identified a material weakness in our financial reporting, and failure to remediate it or any future ineffectiveness of internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and are currently developing additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2011. Our compliance with certain of these rules, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has required and will continue to require the commitment of significant managerial resources. In addition, establishment of effective internal controls is further complicated because we are now a global company with multiple locations and IT systems and a smaller staff following the sale of our Numbering business. We continue to review our material internal control systems, processes and procedures for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Such a review resulted in identification of a material weaknesses in our internal controls and a conclusion that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2011, as discussed in Section 9A of this Report on Form 10-K. While we are taking steps to remediate the weakness, there is no guarantee that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Disclosures of material weaknesses in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our stock. 12 Table of Contents Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. Certain provisions of our charter documents, employment arrangements and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. On February 11, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to our stockholders rights agreement (“Poison Pill”) terminating the agreement on March 1, 2011. However, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could continue to make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include the following: · our stockholders cannot take action by written consent; and · we have advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 and certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by discouraging or preventing takeover attempts that might result in the payment of a premium price to our stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains a change in control provision. This agreement generally provides for acceleration on vesting of options, 50% upon a change in control (as defined in such agreement) if the CEO remains employed with the new entity, or 100% in the event the CEO’s employment is terminated. The acceleration of vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure and may have the effect of discouraging a merger proposal, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of us. Our Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of vesting under certain circumstances. Upon certain changes in control of us, vesting on some options awarded to directors may be accelerated. In addition, the successor corporation may assume outstanding stock awards or substitute equivalent stock awards. If the successor corporation refuses to do so, such stock awards will become fully vested and exercisable for a period of 15 days after notice from us but the option will terminate if not exercised during that period. As noted above, the acceleration on vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, that impact the communications industry, could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Unsettled financial markets, higher interest rates, inflation, levels of unemployment and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to these conditions, negative financial news and declines in income and asset values. Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in: · difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; · pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; · lengthening sales cycles and slowing deployments; · increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities; · increased risk of charges relating to write off of goodwill and other intangible assets; · customer and reseller financial difficulty and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable. We are unable to predict how long the current economic downturn will last and the magnitude of its effect on our business and results of operations. If these conditions continue, or further weaken, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents General risk statement Based on all of the foregoing, we believe it is possible for future revenue, expenses and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. Furthermore, we believe that it is possible that in any given quarter or fiscal year our operating results could differ from the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, or in the event that adverse conditions prevail, or are perceived to prevail, with respect to our business or generally, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 