Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. An investment in our stock involves various risks, including those mentioned below and elsewhere this Annual Report on Form 10-K and those that are described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC. 7 Table of Contents Our financial results are materially dependent on the performance of Marketing. In the event that Marketing does not perform its rental, environmental or other obligations under the Marketing Leases, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price could be materially adversely affected. The financial performance of Marketing has deteriorated in recent years. Our financial results are materially dependent upon the ability of Marketing to meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases. A substantial portion of our revenues (66% for the year ended December 31, 2010) are derived from the Marketing Leases. Accordingly, any factor that adversely affects Marketing’s ability to meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. For additional information regarding the portion of our financial results that are attributable to Marketing, see Note 11 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not yet received Marketing’s unaudited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Marketing reported a significant loss, continuing a trend of reporting large losses in recent years. Based on the interim reports we have received through 2010, Marketing’s significant losses have continued. As a result of Marketing’s significant losses, including the losses reported to us subsequent to Marketing’s reorganization in 2009 (discussed in more detail below) and the cumulative impact of those losses on Marketing’s financial position as of September 30, 2010, we continue to believe that Marketing likely does not have the ability to generate cash flows from its business operations sufficient to meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the terms of the Marketing Leases unless Marketing shows significant improvement in its financial results, reduces the number of properties under the Marketing Leases, or receives additional capital or credit support. There can be no assurance that Marketing will be successful in any of these efforts. It is also possible that the deterioration of Marketing’s financial condition may continue or that Marketing may file bankruptcy and seek to reorganize or liquidate its business. It is possible that Marketing may aggressively pursue seeking a modification of the Marketing Leases, including, removal of properties from the Marketing Leases, or a reduction in the rental payments owed by Marketing under the Marketing Lease. As of December 31, 2010, the net carrying value of the deferred rent receivable attributable to the Marketing Leases was $21.2 million and the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities (as defined below), net of expected recoveries from underground storage tank funds, for which we may ultimately be responsible to pay but have not accrued range between $13 million and $20 million. The actual amount of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities may differ from our estimated range and we can provide no assurance as to the accuracy of our estimate. Although our 2010 financial statements were not affected by the transfer of Lukoil’s ownership interest in Marketing to Cambridge, our estimates, judgments, assumptions and beliefs regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases made effective December 31, 2010 are subject to reevaluation and possible change as we develop a greater understanding of factors relating to the new ownership and management of Marketing, Marketing’s business plan and strategies and its capital resources. It is possible that we may be required to increase or decrease the deferred rent reserve, record additional impairment charges related to the properties, or accrue for Marketing Environmental Liabilities as a result of changes in our estimates, judgments, assumptions and beliefs regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements. It is possible also that as a result of material adjustments to the amounts recorded for certain of our assets and liabilities that we may not be in compliance with the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement or Term Loan Agreement. If Marketing does not meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. Lukoil transferred its ownership interest in Marketing. We cannot predict what impact such transfer will have on Marketing’s ability or willingness to perform its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Master Lease and on our business. On February 28, 2011, Lukoil, one of the largest integrated Russian oil companies, transferred its ownership interest in Marketing to Cambridge. We are not privy to the terms and conditions pertaining to this transaction between Lukoil and Cambridge. In connection with the transfer, we do not know what type or amount of consideration, if any, was paid or is payable by Lukoil or its subsidiaries to Cambridge, or by Cambridge to Lukoil or its subsidiaries. We do not know if there are any ongoing contractual or business relationships between Lukoil or its subsidiaries or affiliates and Cambridge or its subsidiaries or affiliates, including Marketing. We have commenced discussions with the new owners and management of Marketing, however, we cannot predict the impact the transfer of Marketing may have on our business. 8 Table of Contents While Lukoil had provided capital to Marketing in the past, there can be no assurance that Cambridge will provide financial support or will have the capacity to provide capital or financial support to Marketing in the future. It is possible that Marketing may file for bankruptcy protection and seek to reorganize or liquidate its business. It is also possible that Marketing may take other actions such as aggressively seeking to modify the terms of the Marketing Leases. We cannot predict what impact Lukoil’s transfer of its ownership interest to Cambridge will have on Marketing’s ability and willingness to perform its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases. If Marketing does not meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. It is possible that we may be required to increase or decrease the deferred rent receivable reserve, record additional impairment charges related to our properties, or accrue for environmental liabilities as a result of the potential or actual filing for bankruptcy protection by Marketing or any potential or actual modification or termination of the Marketing Leases. It is possible that as a result of material adjustments to the amounts recorded for certain of our assets and liabilities that we may not be in compliance with the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement or Term Loan Agreement. We cannot predict what impact Marketing’s restructuring, dispute with Bionol and other changes in its business model will have on us. In November 2009, Marketing announced a restructuring of its business. Marketing disclosed that the restructuring included the sale of all assets unrelated to the properties it leases from us, the elimination of parent-guaranteed debt, and steps to reduce operating costs. Although Marketing’s press release stated that its restructuring included the sale of all assets unrelated to the properties it leases from us, we have concluded, based on the press releases related to the Marketing/Bionol contract dispute described below, that Marketing’s restructuring did not include the sale of all assets unrelated to the properties it leases from us. Marketing sold certain assets unrelated to the properties it leases from us to its affiliates, LUKOIL Pan Americas LLC and LUKOIL North America LLC. We believe that Marketing retained other assets, liabilities and business matters unrelated to the properties it leases from us. As part of the restructuring, Marketing paid off debt which had been guaranteed or held by Lukoil with proceeds from the sale of assets to Lukoil affiliates. In June 2010, Marketing and Bionol Clearfield LLC (“Bionol”) each issued press releases regarding a significant contractual dispute between them. Bionol owns and operates an ethanol plant in Pennsylvania. Bionol and Marketing entered into a five-year contract under which Marketing agreed to purchase substantially all of the ethanol production from the Bionol plant, at formula-based prices. Bionol stated that Marketing breached the contract by not paying the agreed-upon price for the ethanol. According to Bionol’s press release, the cumulative gross purchase commitment under the contract could be on the order of one billion dollars. Marketing stated in its press release that it continues to pay Bionol millions of dollars each month for the ethanol, withholding only the amount of the purchase price in dispute and that it has filed for arbitration to resolve the dispute. Among other items related to this matter, we do not know: (i) the accuracy of the statements made by Marketing and Bionol when made or if such statements reflect the current status of the dispute; (ii) the cumulative or projected amount of the purchase price in dispute and how Marketing has accounted for the ethanol contract in its financial statements; or (iii) how the formula-based price compares to the market price of ethanol. We cannot predict how the ultimate resolution of this matter may impact Marketing’s long-term financial performance and its ability to meet its rental, environmental and other obligations to us as they become due under the terms of the Marketing Leases. We cannot predict what impact Marketing’s restructuring, dispute with Bionol or other changes in its business model will have on us. If Marketing does not meet its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. If it becomes probable that Marketing will not pay its environmental obligations, or if we change our assumptions for environmental liabilities related to the Marketing Leases we would be in default of our Credit Agreement or Term Loan Agreement, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price could be materially adversely affected. Marketing is directly responsible to pay for (i) remediation of environmental contamination it causes and compliance with various environmental laws and regulations as the operator of our properties, and (ii) known and unknown environmental liabilities allocated to Marketing under the terms of the Marketing Leases and various other agreements with us relating to Marketing’s business and the properties it leases from us (collectively the “Marketing Environmental Liabilities”). However, we continue to have ongoing environmental remediation obligations at 186 retail sites and for certain pre-existing conditions 9 Table of Contents at six of the terminals we lease to Marketing. If Marketing fails to pay the Marketing Environmental Liabilities, we may ultimately be responsible to pay for Marketing Environmental Liabilities as the property owner. We do not maintain pollution legal liability insurance to protect us from potential future claims for Marketing Environmental Liabilities. We will be required to accrue for Marketing Environmental Liabilities if we determine that it is probable that Marketing will not meet its environmental obligations and we can reasonably estimate the amount of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities for which we will be responsible to pay, or if our assumptions regarding the ultimate allocation methods or share of responsibility that we used to allocate environmental liabilities changes. However, we continue to believe that it is not probable that Marketing will not pay for substantially all of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities. Accordingly, we have not accrued for the Marketing Environmental Liabilities. Nonetheless, we have determined that the aggregate amount of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities (as estimated by us) would be material to us if we were required to accrue for all of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities since as a result of such accrual, we would not be in compliance with the existing financial covenants in our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement. Such non-compliance would result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement which, if not waived, would prohibit us from drawing funds against the Credit Agreement and could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness under such agreements. It is possible that we may change our estimates, judgments, assumptions and beliefs regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases, and accordingly, we may be required to accrue for Marketing Environmental Liabilities. If we determine that it is probable that Marketing will not meet the Marketing Environmental Liabilities and we accrue for such liabilities, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. We estimate that, the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities, net of expected recoveries from underground storage tank funds, for which we may ultimately be responsible to pay range between $13 million and $20 million, of which between $6 million and $9 million relate to the properties that we identified as the basis for our estimate of the deferred rent receivable reserve. Since we generally do not have access to certain site specific information available to Marketing, which is the party responsible for paying and managing its environmental remediation expenses at our properties, our estimates were developed in large part by review of the limited publically available information gathered through electronic databases and freedom of information requests and assumptions we made based on that data and on our own experiences with environmental remediation matters. The actual amounts of the ranges estimated above may differ materially from our estimates and we can provide no assurance as to the accuracy of these estimates. If the Marketing Leases are modified significantly or terminated, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price could be materially adversely affected. From time to time when it was owned by Lukoil, we held discussions with representatives of Marketing regarding potential modifications to the Marketing Leases. These discussions did not result in a common understanding with Marketing that would form a basis for modification of the Marketing Leases. We have recently initiated discussions with the new owners and management of Marketing, subsequent to Lukoil’s transfer of its ownership interest in Marketing to Cambridge. It is possible that the new management of Marketing may aggressively seek to modify the terms of the Marketing Leases or seek to remove a substantial number of properties from the Marketing Leases. We intend to continue to pursue the removal of individual properties from the Marketing Leases, and we remain open to removal of groups of properties; however, there is no agreement in place providing for removal of properties from the Marketing Leases. If Marketing ultimately determines that its business strategy is to exit all or a portion of the properties it leases from us, it is our intention to cooperate with Marketing in accomplishing those objectives if we determine that it is prudent for us to do so. Any modification of the Marketing Leases that removes a significant number of properties from the Marketing Leases would likely significantly reduce the amount of rent we receive from Marketing and increase our operating expenses. We cannot accurately predict if, or when, the Marketing Leases will be modified; what composition of properties, if any, may be removed from the Marketing Leases as part of any such modification; or what the terms of any agreement for modification of the Marketing Leases may be. We also cannot accurately predict what actions Marketing may take, and what our recourse may be, whether the Marketing Leases are modified or not. We may be required to increase or decrease the deferred rent receivable reserve, record additional impairment charges related to our properties, or accrue for environmental liabilities as a result of the potential or actual modification or termination of the Marketing Leases. As permitted under the terms of the Marketing Leases, Marketing generally can, subject to any contrary terms under applicable third party leases, use each property for any lawful purpose, or for no purpose whatsoever. We believe that as of 10 Table of Contents March 16, 2011, Marketing was not operating any of the nine terminals it leases from us and had removed, or has scheduled removal of, the underground gasoline storage tanks and related equipment at approximately 140 of our retail properties and we also believe that most of these properties are either vacant or provide negative contribution to Marketing’s results. In those instances where we determine that the best use for a property is no longer as a retail motor fuel outlet, at the appropriate time we will seek an alternative tenant or buyer for such property. With respect to properties that are vacant or have had underground gasoline storage tanks and related equipment removed, it may be more difficult or costly to re-let or sell such properties as gas stations because of capital costs or possible zoning or permitting rights that are required and that may have lapsed during the period since gasoline was last sold at the property. We intend either to re-let or sell any properties that are removed from the Marketing Leases, whether such removal arises consensually by negotiation or as a result of default by Marketing, and reinvest any realized sales proceeds in new properties. We intend to offer properties removed from the Marketing Leases to replacement tenants or buyers individually, or in groups of properties, or by seeking a single tenant for the entire portfolio of properties subject to the Marketing Leases. In the event that properties are removed from the Marketing Leases, we cannot accurately predict if, when, or on what terms such properties could be re-let or sold. If the Marketing Leases are significantly modified or terminated, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expenses, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. Although we periodically receive and review the unaudited financial statements and other financial information from Marketing, this information is not publicly available to investors. You will not have access to financial information about Marketing provided to us by Marketing to allow you to independently assess Marketing’s financial condition or its ability to satisfy its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases. We periodically receive and review Marketing’s unaudited financial statements and other financial information that we receive from Marketing pursuant to the terms of the Marketing Leases. However, the financial statements and other financial information are not publicly available to investors and Marketing contends that the terms of the Marketing Leases prohibit us from including the financial statements and other financial information in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or in our Annual Reports to Shareholders. The Marketing Leases provide that Marketing’s financial information which is not publicly available shall be delivered to us within one hundred fifty days after the end of each fiscal year. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not yet received Marketing’s unaudited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. The financial statements and other financial information that we receive from Marketing is unaudited and neither we, nor our auditors, have been involved with its preparation and as a result have no assurance as to its correctness or completeness. You will not have access to financial statements and other financial information about Marketing provided to us by Marketing to allow you to independently assess Marketing’s financial condition or its ability to satisfy its rental, environmental and other obligations under the Marketing Leases, which may put your investment in us at greater risk of loss. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations, and they require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial position and results of operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates, judgments and assumptions associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make subsequent significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements. Estimates, judgments and assumptions underlying our consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, deferred rent receivable, income under direct financing leases, recoveries from state UST funds, environmental remediation costs, real estate including impairment charges related to the reduction in market value of our real estate, depreciation and amortization, impairment of long-lived assets, litigation, accrued expenses, income taxes and the allocation of the purchase price of properties acquired to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For example, we have made judgments regarding the level of environmental reserves and reserves for our deferred rent receivable relating to Marketing and the Marketing Leases and leases with our other tenants. As of December 31, 2010, the 11 Table of Contents net carrying value of the deferred rent receivable attributable to the Marketing Leases was $21.2 million and the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities, net of expected recoveries from underground storage tank funds, for which we may ultimately be responsible to pay but not have accrued range between $13 million and $20 million. The actual amount of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities may differ from our estimated range and we can provide no assurance as to the accuracy of our estimate. Although our 2010 financial statements were not affected by the transfer of Lukoil’s ownership interest in Marketing to Cambridge, our estimates, judgments, assumptions and beliefs regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases made effective December 31, 2010 are subject to reevaluation and possible change as we develop a greater understanding of factors relating to the new ownership and management of Marketing, Marketing’s business plans, strategies, operating results and its capital resources. It is possible that we may be required to increase or decrease our deferred rent receivable reserve, record additional impairment charges related to our properties, or accrue for Marketing Environmental Liabilities as a result of changes in our estimates, judgments, assumptions and beliefs regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements. It is possible that as a result of material adjustments to the amounts recorded for certain of our assets and liabilities that we may not be in compliance with the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement or Term Loan Agreement. If our judgments, assumptions and allocations prove to be incorrect, or if circumstances change, our business, financial condition, revenues, operating expense, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price may be materially adversely affected. (For information regarding our critical accounting policies, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies”.) We may acquire or develop new properties, and this may create risks. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate companies when we believe that an acquisition or development matches our business strategies. These properties may have characteristics or deficiencies currently unknown to us that affect their value or revenue potential. It is possible that the operating performance of these properties may decline after we acquire them, they may not perform as expected and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. Our acquisitions of new properties will also expose us to the liabilities of those properties, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition. We face competition in pursuing these acquisitions and we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition or development and operations. Newly acquired properties may require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We may not succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within our budget. Consequences arising from or in connection with any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. While we seek to grow through accretive acquisitions, acquisitions of properties may be dilutive and may not produce the returns that we expect and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our portfolio or manage our growth effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. One or more acquisition of properties may initially be dilutive to our net income, and acquired properties may not perform as we expect or produce the returns that we anticipate (including, without limitation, as a result of tenant bankruptcies, tenant concessions, our inability to collect rents and higher than anticipated operating expenses). Further, we may not successfully integrate one or more of these property acquisitions into our existing portfolio without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Additionally, as we increase the size of our portfolio, we may not be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to integrate acquired properties into our portfolio or manage any future acquisitions of properties without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Moreover, the continued growth of our portfolio will require increased investment in management personnel, professional fees, other personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which will result in additional operating expenses. Under the circumstances described above, our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks inherent in owning and leasing real estate. We are subject to varying degrees of risk generally related to leasing and owning real estate many of which are beyond our control. In addition to general risks related to owning properties used in the petroleum marketing industry, our risks include, among others: 12 Table of Contents • our liability as a lessee for long-term lease obligations regardless of our revenues, • deterioration in national, regional and local economic and real estate market conditions, • potential changes in supply of, or demand for, rental properties similar to ours, • competition for tenants and declining rental rates, • difficulty in selling or re-letting properties on favorable terms or at all, • impairments in our ability to collect rent payments when due, • increases in interest rates and adverse changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing, • the potential for uninsured casualty and other losses due to natural disasters or other causes, • the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, • adverse changes in zoning laws and other regulations, and • acts of terrorism and war. Each of these factors could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. In addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid, which means that our ability to vary our portfolio of properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be limited. Adverse developments in general business, economic, or political conditions could have a material adverse effect on us. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions, including through recession, downturn or otherwise, either in the economy generally or in those regions in which a large portion of our business is conducted, could have a material adverse effect on us and significantly increase certain of the risks we are subject to. The general economic conditions in the United States are, and for an extended period of time may be, significantly less favorable than that of prior years. Among other effects, adverse economic conditions could depress real estate values, impact our ability to re-let or sell our properties and have an adverse effect on our tenants’ level of sales and financial performance generally. Our revenues are dependent on the economic success of our tenants and any factors that adversely impact our tenants could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. Substantially all of our tenants depend on the same industry for their revenues. We derive substantially all of our revenues from leasing, primarily on a triple-net basis, retail motor fuel and convenience store properties and petroleum distribution terminals to tenants in the petroleum marketing industry. Accordingly, our revenues will be dependent on the economic success of the petroleum marketing industry, and any factors that adversely affect that industry, such as disruption in the supply of petroleum or a decrease in the demand for conventional motor fuels due to conservation, technological advancements in petroleum-fueled motor vehicles, or an increase in the use of alternative fuel vehicles, or “green technology” could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. The success of participants in the petroleum marketing industry depends upon the sale of refined petroleum products at margins in excess of fixed and variable expenses. The petroleum marketing industry is highly competitive and volatile. Petroleum products are commodities, the prices of which depend on numerous factors that affect supply and demand. The prices paid by our tenants and other petroleum marketers for products are affected by global, national and regional factors. A large, rapid increase in wholesale petroleum prices would adversely affect the profitability and cash flows of our tenants if the increased cost of petroleum products could not be passed on to their customers or if automobile consumption of gasoline was to decline significantly. We cannot be certain how these factors will affect petroleum product prices or supply in the future, or how in particular they will affect our tenants. 13 Table of Contents Our future cash flow is dependent on the performance of our tenants of their lease obligations, renewal of existing leases and either re-letting or selling our vacant properties. We are subject to risks that financial distress, default or bankruptcy of our existing tenants may lead to vacancy at our properties or disruption in rent receipts as a result of partial payment or nonpayment of rent or that expiring leases may not be renewed. Under unfavorable general economic conditions, there can be no assurance that our tenants’ level of sales and financial performance generally will not be adversely affected, which in turn, could impact the reliability of our rent receipts. We are subject to risks that the terms governing renewal or re-letting of our properties (including the cost of required renovations, replacement of gasoline tanks and related equipment or environmental remediation) may be less favorable than current lease terms, or that the values of our properties that we sell may be adversely affected by unfavorable general economic conditions. Unfavorable general economic conditions may also negatively impact our ability to re-let or sell our properties. Numerous properties compete with our properties in attracting tenants to lease space. The number of available or competitive properties in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease or sell our properties and on the rents we are able to charge. In addition to the risk of disruption in rent receipts, we are subject to the risk of incurring real estate taxes, maintenance, environmental and other expenses at vacant properties. The financial distress, default or bankruptcy of our tenants may also lead to protracted and expensive processes for retaking control of our properties than would otherwise be the case, including, eviction or other legal proceedings related to or resulting from the tenant’s default. These risks are greater with respect to certain of our tenants who lease multiple properties from us, such as Marketing. It is possible that Marketing may file for bankruptcy protection and seek to reorganize or liquidate its business. (For additional information regarding the portion of our financial results that are attributable to Marketing, see Note 11 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” For additional information with respect to concentration of tenant risk, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases”.) If a tenant files for bankruptcy protection it is possible that we would recover substantially less than the full value of our claims against the tenant. If our tenants do not perform their lease obligations; or we are unable to renew existing leases and promptly recapture and re-let or sell vacant locations; or if lease terms upon renewal or re-letting are less favorable than current lease terms; or if the values of properties that we sell are adversely affected by market conditions; or if we incur significant costs or disruption related to or resulting from tenant financial distress, default or bankruptcy; then our cash flow could be significantly adversely affected. Property taxes on our properties may increase without notice. Each of the properties we own or lease is subject to real property taxes. The leases for certain of the properties that we lease from third parties obligate us to pay real property taxes with regard to those properties. The real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop, acquire or lease in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. To the extent that our tenants are unable or unwilling to pay such increase in accordance with their leases, our net operating expenses may increase. We incur significant operating costs as a result of environmental laws and regulations which costs could significantly rise and reduce our profitability. We are subject to numerous existing federal, state and local laws and regulations, including matters relating to the protection of the environment. Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at, on, or under, such property, and may be required to investigate and clean-up such contamination. Such laws typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, or the timing or cause of the contamination, and the liability under such laws has been interpreted to be joint and several unless the harm is divisible and there is a reasonable basis for allocation of responsibility. For example, liability may arise as a result of the historical use of a property or from the migration of contamination from adjacent or nearby properties. Any such contamination or liability may also reduce the value of the property. In addition, the owner or operator of a property may be subject to claims by third parties based on injury, damage and/or costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting from environmental contamination present at or emanating from a property. The properties owned or controlled by us are leased primarily as retail motor fuel and convenience store properties, and therefore may 14 Table of Contents contain, or may have contained, USTs for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous or toxic substances, which creates a potential for the release of such products or substances. Some of our properties may be subject to regulations regarding the retirement and decommissioning or removal of long-lived assets including buildings containing hazardous materials, USTs and other equipment. Some of the properties may be adjacent to or near properties that have contained or currently contain USTs used to store petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, certain of the properties are on, adjacent to, or near properties upon which others have engaged or may in the future engage in activities that may release petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. There may be other environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. These problems may make it more difficult for us to re-let or sell our properties on favorable terms, or at all. For additional information with respect to pending environmental lawsuits and claims, environmental remediation costs and estimates, and Marketing and the Marketing Leases see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, “Environmental Matters” and “General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 5 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” each of which is incorporated by reference herein. We enter into leases and various other agreements which allocate responsibility for known and unknown environmental liabilities by establishing the percentage and method of allocating responsibility between the parties. Our tenants are directly responsible to pay for (i) remediation of environmental contamination they cause and compliance with various environmental laws and regulations as the operators of our properties, and (ii) environmental liabilities allocated to them under the terms of our leases and various other agreements. Generally, the liability for the retirement and decommissioning or removal of USTs and other equipment is the responsibility of our tenants. We are contingently liable for these obligations in the event that our tenants do not satisfy their responsibilities. A liability has not been accrued for obligations that are the responsibility of our tenants based on our tenants’ past histories of paying such obligations and/or our assessment of their respective financial abilities to pay their share of such costs. However, there can be no assurance that our assessments are correct or that our tenants who have paid their obligations in the past will continue to do so. As of December 31, 2010, we had accrued $10.9 million as management’s best estimate of the net fair value of reasonably estimable environmental remediation costs which was comprised of $14.9 million of estimated environmental obligations and liabilities offset by $4.0 million of estimated recoveries from state UST remediation funds, net of allowance. Environmental exposures are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, including the extent of contamination, alternative treatment methods that may be applied, location of the property which subjects it to differing local laws and regulations and their interpretations, as well as the time it takes to remediate contamination. In developing our liability for probable and reasonably estimable environmental remediation costs on a property by property basis, we consider among other things, enacted laws and regulations, assessments of contamination and surrounding geology, quality of information available, currently available technologies for treatment, alternative methods of remediation and prior experience. Environmental accruals are based on estimates which are subject to significant change, and are adjusted as the remediation treatment progresses, as circumstances change and as environmental contingencies become more clearly defined and reasonably estimable. Adjustments to accrued liabilities for environmental remediation costs will be reflected in our financial statements as they become probable and a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. We have not accrued for approximately $1.0 million in costs incurred by the current property owner in connection with removal of USTs and soil remediation at a property that was leased to and operated by Marketing. We believe that Marketing is responsible for such costs under the terms of the Master Lease, and on that basis we tendered the matter to Marketing for defense and indemnification, but Marketing denied its liability for claims and its responsibility to defend and indemnify us. We were sued by the current property owner and filed third party claims against Marketing for indemnification. The property owner’s claim for reimbursement of costs incurred and our claim for indemnification from Marketing were actively litigated leading to a trial held before a judge. The trial court issued its decision in August 2009 under which the company and Marketing were held jointly and severally responsible to the current property owner for the costs incurred by the owner to remove USTs and remediate contamination at the site, but, as between the company and Marketing, Marketing was held accountable for such costs under the indemnification provisions of the Master Lease. Marketing has appealed the decision; however, we believe the probability that the trial court decision will be reversed or remanded and that Marketing will not ultimately be held responsible for the clean-up costs incurred by the current property owner is remote. It is possible that our assumptions regarding the ultimate allocation methods and share of responsibility that we used to allocate environmental liabilities may change, which may result in adjustments to the amounts recorded for environmental 15 Table of Contents litigation accruals, environmental remediation liabilities and related assets. We will be required to accrue for environmental liabilities that we believe are allocable to others under various other agreements if we determine that it is probable that the counter-party will not meet its environmental obligations. We may ultimately be responsible to pay for environmental liabilities as the property owner if the counterparty fails to pay them. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted in the future, or if or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to products or activities to which they have not previously been applied. We cannot predict whether state UST fund programs will be administered and funded in the future in a manner that is consistent with past practices and if future environmental spending will continue to be eligible for reimbursement at historical recovery rates under these programs. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies or stricter interpretation of existing laws which may develop in the future, could have an adverse effect on our financial position, or that of our tenants, and could require substantial additional expenditures for future remediation. As a result of the factors discussed above, or others, compliance with environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. We are defending pending lawsuits and claims and are subject to material losses. We are subject to various lawsuits and claims, including litigation related to environmental matters, such as those arising from leaking USTs and releases of motor fuel into the environment, and toxic tort claims. The ultimate resolution of certain matters cannot be predicted because considerable uncertainty exists both in terms of the probability of loss and the estimate of such loss. Our ultimate liabilities resulting from such lawsuits and claims, if any, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. For additional information with respect to pending environmental lawsuits and claims and environmental remediation costs and estimates see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and “Environmental Matters” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 3 and 5 in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” each of which is incorporated by reference herein. A significant portion of our properties are concentrated in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, and adverse conditions in those regions, in particular, could negatively impact our operations. A significant portion of the properties we own and lease are located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. Because of the concentration of our properties in those regions, in the event of adverse economic conditions in those regions, we would likely experience higher risk of default on payment of rent to us (including under the Marketing Leases) than if our properties were more geographically diversified. Additionally, the rents on our properties may be subject to a greater risk of default than other properties in the event of adverse economic, political, or business developments or natural hazards that may affect the Northeast or Mid-Atlantic United States and the ability of our lessees to make rent payments. This lack of geographical diversification could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. We are in a competitive business. The real estate industry is highly competitive. Where we own properties, we compete for tenants with a large number of real estate property owners and other companies that sublet properties. Our principal means of competition are rents we are able to charge in relation to the income producing potential of the location. In addition, we expect other major real estate investors, some with much greater financial resources or more experienced personnel than we have, will compete with us for attractive acquisition opportunities. These competitors include petroleum manufacturing, distributing and marketing companies, other REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. This competition has increased prices for properties we seek to acquire and may impair our ability to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. 16 Table of Contents We are exposed to counterparty credit risk and there can be no assurances that we will effectively manage or mitigate this risk . We regularly interact with counterparties in various industries. The types of counterparties most common to our transactions and agreements include, but are not limited to, landlords, tenants, vendors and lenders. Our most significant counterparties include, but are not limited to, Marketing as our primary tenant, the members of the Bank Syndicate that are counterparties to our Credit Agreement as our primary source of financing and JPMorgan Chase as the counterparty to our interest rate Swap Agreement. The default, insolvency or other inability of a significant counterparty to perform its obligations under an agreement or transaction, including, without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction in bankruptcy proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on us. (For additional information with respect to, and definitions of, the Bank Syndicate, the Credit Agreement and the Swap Agreement, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks”.) We are subject to losses that may not be covered by insurance. Marketing, and other tenants, as the lessees of our properties, are required to provide insurance for such properties, including casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage in amounts and on other terms as set forth in our leases. We do not maintain pollution legal liability insurance to protect the Company from potential future claims for environmental contamination, including the environmental liabilities that are the responsibility of our tenants. We carry insurance against certain risks and in such amounts as we believe are customary for businesses of our kind. However, as the costs and availability of insurance change, we may decide not to be covered against certain losses (such as certain environmental liabilities, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and civil disorder) where, in the judgment of management, the insurance is not warranted due to cost or availability of coverage or the remoteness of perceived risk. There is no assurance that our insurance coverages are or will be sufficient to cover actual losses incurred. The destruction of, or significant damage to, or significant liabilities arising out of conditions at, our properties due to an uninsured cause would result in an economic loss and could result in us losing both our investment in, and anticipated profits from, such properties. When a loss is insured, the coverage may be insufficient in amount or duration, or a lessee’s customers may be lost, such that the lessee cannot resume its business after the loss at prior levels or at all, resulting in reduced rent or a default under its lease. Any such loss relating to a large number of properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. Failure to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws would have adverse consequences to our shareholders. We elected to be treated as a REIT under the federal income tax laws beginning January 1, 2001. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will continue to qualify in the future as a REIT. We cannot give any assurance that new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions will not significantly change the requirements relating to our qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and will again be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates, we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax, we could be required to pay significant income taxes and we would have less money available for our operations and distributions to shareholders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. We could also be precluded from treatment as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which we lost the qualification, and all distributions to shareholders would be taxable as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. Loss of our REIT status would result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would prohibit us from drawing funds against the Credit Agreement and could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan Agreement which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. 17 Table of Contents We are dependent on external sources of capital which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We are dependent on external sources of capital to maintain our status as a REIT and must distribute to our shareholders each year at least ninety percent of our net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. Therefore, we will have to continue to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. As part of our overall growth strategy we regularly review opportunities to acquire additional properties and we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions that we believe will benefit our financial performance. To the extent that our current sources of liquidity are not sufficient to fund such acquisitions we will require other sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Other sources of capital may significantly increase our interest rate risk or adversely impact how we manage our interest rate risk. We cannot accurately predict how periods of illiquidity in the credit markets will impact our access to or cost of capital. In addition, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of shareholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends upon a number of factors including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions, covenants and limitations imposed under our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement and the market price of our common stock. If one or more of the financial institutions that supports our Credit Agreement fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under our the Credit Agreement. We may not be able to refinance our outstanding debt under the Credit Agreement when due in March 2012 or under the Term Loan when due in September 2012, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to meet the financial and other covenants relating to our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement may be dependent on the performance of our tenants, including Marketing. Should our assessments, assumptions and beliefs that affect our accounting prove to be incorrect, or if circumstances change, we may have to materially adjust the amounts recorded in our financial statements for certain assets and liabilities, and, as a result, we may not be in compliance with the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement. We have determined that the aggregate amount of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities (as estimated by us, based on our assumptions and analysis of information currently available to us described in more detail above) would be material to us if we were required to accrue for all of the Marketing Environmental Liabilities since as a result of such accrual, we would not be in compliance with the existing financial covenants in our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement. (For additional information with respect to The Marketing Environmental Liabilities, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases”.) If we are not in compliance with one or more of our covenants which if not complied with could result in an event of default under our Credit Agreement or our Term Loan Agreement, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive such non-compliance. An event of default if not cured or waived would increase by 2.0% the interest rate we pay under our Credit Agreement. A default under our Credit Agreement or our Term Loan Agreement, if not cured or waived, would prohibit us from drawing funds against the Credit Agreement and could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness under such agreements. We may be unable to fulfill our commitments to complete pending acquisitions and incur monetary losses or damage our reputation if we cannot draw sufficient funds against the Credit Agreement. This could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. The downturn in the credit markets has increased the cost of borrowing and has made financing difficult to obtain, which may negatively impact our business, and may have a material adverse effect on us. Lenders may require us to enter into more restrictive covenants relating to our operations. During 2007, the United States housing and residential lending markets began to experience accelerating default rates, declining real estate values and increasing backlog of housing supply. The residential sector issues quickly spread more broadly into the corporate, asset-backed and other credit and equity markets and the volatility and risk premiums in most credit and equity markets have increased dramatically, while liquidity has decreased. These issues continued throughout 2010 and into the beginning of 2011. Increasing concerns regarding the United States and world economic outlook, such as large asset write-downs at banks, volatility in oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment and bankruptcy filings, are compounding these issues and risk premiums in most capital markets remain at elevated levels. These factors are precipitating generalized credit market dislocations and a significant contraction in available credit. As a result, it is more difficult to obtain cost-effective debt capital to finance new investment activity or to refinance maturing 18 Table of Contents debt, and most lenders are imposing more stringent restrictions on the terms of credit. Any future credit agreements or loan documents we execute may contain additional or more restrictive covenants. The negative impact on the tightening of the credit markets and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could have negative effects on our business such as (i) we could have difficulty in acquiring or developing properties, which would adversely affect our business strategy, (ii) our liquidity could be adversely affected, (iii) we may be unable to repay or refinance our indebtedness or (iv) we may need to make higher interest and principal payments or sell some of our assets on unfavorable terms to fund our liquidity needs. These negative effects may cause other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay dividends or stock price. Additionally, there is no assurance that the increased financing costs, financing with increasingly restrictive terms or the increase in risk premiums that are demanded by investors will not have a material adverse effect on us. Our business operations may not generate sufficient cash for distributions or debt service. There is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock, to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not be able to repay or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms, which could force us to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms (which may also result in losses) or accept financing on unfavorable terms. We are exposed to interest rate risk and there can be no assurances that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively. We are exposed to interest rate risk, primarily as a result of our $175.0 million Credit Agreement and our $25.0 million Term Loan Agreement. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement bear interest at a floating rate. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates will increase the amount of interest we must pay under our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement. A significant increase in interest rates could also make it more difficult to find alternative financing on desirable terms. We have entered into an interest rate Swap Agreement with a major financial institution which expires in June 2011 with respect to a portion of our variable rate debt outstanding under our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan agreement. We are, and will be, exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that our aggregate borrowings floating at market rates exceed the $45.0 million notional amount of the Swap Agreement. We will be fully exposed to interest rate risk on our aggregate borrowings floating at market rates upon expiration of the Swap Agreement in June 2011 unless we enter into another swap agreement. Although the Swap Agreement is intended to lessen the impact of rising interest rates, it also exposes us to the risk that the other party to the agreement will not perform, the agreement will be unenforceable and the underlying transactions will fail to qualify as a highly-effective cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. Further, there can be no assurance that the use of an interest rate swap will always be to our benefit. While the use of an interest rate Swap Agreement is intended to lessen the adverse impact of rising interest rates, it also conversely limits the positive impact that could be realized from falling interest rates with respect to the portion of our variable rate debt covered by the interest rate Swap Agreement. (For additional information with respect to interest rate risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks”.) We may be unable to pay dividends. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our ability to pay dividends would be restricted if, after payment of the dividend, (1) we would not be able to pay indebtedness as it becomes due in the usual course of business or (2) our total assets would be less than the sum of our liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if we were to be dissolved, to satisfy the rights of any shareholders with liquidation preferences. There currently are no shareholders with liquidation preferences. No assurance can be given that our financial performance in the future will permit our payment of any dividends at the level historically paid, if at all. (For additional information regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases”.) In particular, our Credit Agreement and our Term Loan Agreement prohibit the payments of dividends during certain events of default. As a result of the factors described above, we may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, which could materially and adversely affect our business, stock price and ability to pay dividends. 19 Table of Contents We may change the dividend policy of our common stock in the future. The decision to declare and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on such factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant and the dividend paid may vary from expected amounts. No assurance can be given that our financial performance in the future will permit our payment of any dividends at the level historically paid, if at all. (For additional information regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases”.) Any change in our dividend policy could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock. A recent Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) revenue procedure allows us to satisfy the REIT income distribution requirement by distributing up to 90% of our dividends on our common stock in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash. Although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure in the future, we currently have no intent to do so. In the event that we pay a portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock, taxable U.S. shareholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid in shares of common stock, in which case such shareholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. If a U.S. shareholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales would put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our publicly traded common stock. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of our publicly traded common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded common stock are the following: • our financial condition and performance and that of our significant tenants, including Marketing (for additional information regarding Marketing and the Marketing Leases, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — General — Marketing and the Marketing Leases”.); • the market’s perception of our growth potential and potential future earnings; • the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to us; • the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); • an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for publicly traded securities; • the extent of institutional investor interest in us; and • general economic and financial market conditions. In order to preserve our REIT status, our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could result in a premium price for our common stock or otherwise benefit our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may actually or constructively own more than 5% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or the outstanding shares of any class or series of our preferred stock, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. We are subject to the provisions of Maryland Business Combination Act (the “Business Combination Act”) which prohibits transactions between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for 5 (five) years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested 20 Table of Contents stockholder. Generally, pursuant to the Business Combination Act, an “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of a Maryland corporation’s voting stock. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company or reducing the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our capital stock. Additionally, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act may deny voting rights to shares involved in an acquisition of one-tenth or more of the voting stock of a Maryland corporation. In our charter and bylaws, we have elected not to have the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act apply to any acquisition by any person of shares of stock of our company. However, in the case of the control share acquisition statute, our board of directors may opt to make this statute applicable to us at any time by amending our bylaws, and may do so on a retroactive basis. Finally, the “unsolicited takeovers” provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stocks with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although inflation has not materially impacted our results of operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in our leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Likewise, even though our triple-net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect the tenants’ ability to pay rent. The loss of certain members of our management team could adversely affect our business. We depend upon the skills and experience of our executive officers. Loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. Except for the employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer, David Driscoll, we do not have employment agreements with any of our executives. Amendments to the Accounting Standards Codification made by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) or changes in accounting standards issued by other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability or financial position. Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP in accordance with the Accounting Standards Codification, which is periodically amended by the FASB. The application of GAAP is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt amendments to the Accounting Standards Codification or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time-to-time by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB and the SEC. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability or financial position. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market on which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our results of operations. Terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could affect our business or the businesses of our tenants or of Marketing or its parent. The consequences of armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Terrorist attacks also could be a factor resulting in, or a continuation of, an economic recession in the United States or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments NONE 21 Table of Contents 