Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information PART III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14 Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15 Exhibits Signatures Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Operations Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements Except for the historical information contained in this document, this report contains forward-looking statements including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results and assumptions.. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words "believes," "goals," "projects," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "strategy," "plan" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to those discussed in this section, in the sections entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors." We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Introduction Evolving Systems, Inc. ("we", "our", "us") is a leading provider of software solutions and services to the wireless, wireline and IP carrier market. We maintain long-standing relationships with many of the largest wireline, wireless and IP communications carriers worldwide. Our customers rely on us to develop, deploy, enhance, maintain and integrate complex, highly reliable software solutions for a range of Operations Support Systems ("OSS") and Network Support Systems ("NSS"). Included among our more than 40 customers are the four largest wireline carriers in North America and three of the world's largest wireless carriers. We offer software products and solutions in three core areas: •numbering solutions that enable carriers to comply with government-mandated requirements regarding number portability and phone number conservation; •mediation solutions supporting data collection for both service assurance and billing applications; and •service activation solutions used to activate in networks complex bundles of voice, video and data services. Historically, our products have been used to support traditional wireless and wireline network telephony capabilities; however, through our continual investment in and improvement of our products, we are beginning to sell our products to carriers to support both their voice and data offerings over Internet Protocol ("IP") and advanced broadband networks. We expanded our core portfolio of ordering and provisioning solutions for Local Number Portability ("LNP"), as well as a number inventory and assignment platform, through three acquisitions we made over a period of 12 months from November of 2003 to November of 2004. With the acquisition of CMS Communications, Inc. ("CMS") in November 2003, we acquired a network mediation and service assurance solution. Additionally, with the acquisition of Telecom Software Enterprises, LLC ("TSE") in October 2004 we added LNP and Wireless Number Portability ("WNP") number ordering and provisioning testing products which provide new OSS system integration capabilities. Finally, in November 2004 we acquired Tertio Telecoms Ltd. ("Evolving Systems U.K."), a privately held supplier of OSS software solutions for mediation and service activation to communication carriers throughout Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, With this acquisition we expanded our markets beyond North America and added an activation solution, Tertio™, and a mediation solution, Evident™, to our product portfolio. Our significantly expanded product and service capabilities now enable us to address a larger portion of our customers' application needs. We have become a company with global reach and a customer base that includes many of the world's leading communications 1 carriers. We are installed in the back office of over 60 networks in 39 countries and are well positioned as a provider of OSS and NSS solutions with comprehensive systems integration capabilities. These complementary competencies allow us to implement solutions across much of a carrier's back office, addressing core needs in service fulfillment and resource management. We operate our business as two operating segments based on revenue type: license fees/services revenue and customer support revenue. Further information regarding our operating segments is contained in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company Background Founded in 1985, we initially focused on providing custom software development and professional services to a limited number of telecommunications companies in the United States. In 1996, concurrent with the passage of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("the Telecom Act"), we made a strategic decision to add software products to our established professional services offerings. Since that time we have built a strong product portfolio, of which we are best known for our Local Number Portability solutions and wireless service activation solutions. In 2002, we initiated a restructuring plan, which, in addition to significant operational cost reductions and greater leverage of offshore development, included the reengineering of our business model to a combination product and solutions model. The product, solutions business model reflects a more balanced mix of products and services, as well as integration and product enhancements for our customers' back office to meet their specific requirements. We complement this customer-specific focus with product development investments driven by more traditional marketing efforts. Solutions which include our products as well as product extensions and integration, are typically licensed to our customers and supported by us. In 2004, we expanded our sales reach to include both direct and indirect sales. We formed new relationships with network equipment providers and system integrators to extend our reach to new geographical regions as well as help us further penetrate our existing territories. We supply packaged products to our channel partners, where we provide the underlying product and our partner provides some or most of the integration services. Also, as noted above, in late 2004 we acquired Tertio Telecoms Ltd., giving us a global presence with worldwide development offices and customers across multiple continents. Recent Developments Integration of TSE and Evolving Systems U.K. The year ended December 31, 2005 was a transforming year. We spent the year focused on the integration of two acquisitions that created a significantly expanded product portfolio and broader geographic reach. During the year, we: •worked to align our cost structure with our expanded operations; •increased our Indian-based software development staff to include development of products we acquired from TSE and Evolving Systems U.K.; •concentrated our R&D investments to reflect our new product portfolio; and •put in place the cross-selling initiative we expected to achieve from the acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K., marketing our traditional U.S. numbering solutions products outside of the U.S., and selling our recently acquired activation products outside of Europe. 2 We finished 2005 with a strong fourth quarter, reflecting higher quarterly revenue and higher quarterly profits as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. This increase in quarterly revenues and profits reflects our progress toward realizing the cost and revenue synergies from our growth and acquisition strategies. Cost Reductions As part of our initial integration of TSE and Evolving Systems U.K. into Evolving Systems, we identified where we had roles in the organization which were duplicative. During the first quarter of 2005, we eliminated these duplicate positions. We also transitioned some of the software development activities performed by TSE and Evolving Systems U.K. to our wholly-owned Indian-based subsidiary, Evolving Systems Networks India Private Limited.("Evolving Systems India"). Finally, in July 2005, we undertook further cost reduction measures that involved an additional 10% reduction in our workforce, including individuals at all levels of our U.S. and U.K. operations. We estimate these cost reduction measures will save us approximately $2.5 million on an annual basis, with the overall impact of the savings beginning to be realized in the fourth quarter of 2005. We recorded severance costs of $845,000 during 2005 related to these cost reductions. Expansion of Indian Development Subsidiary In February 2004, we formed Evolving Systems India. For several years, offshore development, through a subcontractor, had been a key aspect of our low-cost, accelerated-deployment strategy. Having our own offshore subsidiary provides us with more control, flexibility and lower costs than we had using an offshore third party contractor. We continued expansion of this subsidiary throughout 2005, increasing the number of employees from 46 as of December 31, 2004 to 84 as of December 31, 2005. Debt Restructure and Addition of $4.5 Million Working Capital Facility In November 2005, we restructured approximately $13.4 million in debt associated with our 2004 acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. Under the terms of the debt restructuring, the Evolving Systems U.K. sellers agreed to exchange their long-term notes for $8.5 million in cash and approximately $4.9 million in unsecured subordinated notes, due in May 2011. We used proceeds obtained from a five year $8.5 million senior secured term note provided by a commercial finance company to make the cash payments. The restructuring reduced our scheduled principal payments through December 31, 2007, from approximately $12.0 million to $3.0 million. In addition, we added a $4.5 million revolving credit facility with the same commercial finance company to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The new working capital line and debt restructuring improved our working capital position and sharply reduced our short-term annual debt repayments, which will contribute to improved cash flow. LsmsXpress™ Product Launch In 2005, we launched and sold LsmsXpress—a product targeted for carriers looking to reduce the total cost of ownership for their number portability routing requirements. The LsmsXpress solution is a full function, small footprint Local Service Management System ("LSMS") that provides the interface between the North American National Portability Administration Center ("NPAC"), which maintains and tracks data on ported telephone numbers in the United States and Canada, and the network elements that route calls. It is designed to meet the needs of carriers who want to manage core LNP functions in-house rather than using a service bureau. 3 A vendor independent solution, LsmsXpress is designed to enable carriers to implement the LNP provisioning process cost-effectively and efficiently. We also offer a suite of services for carriers looking to transition from the service bureau environment to an in-house LSMS solution. This product and our services are the result of integrating products we obtained from our acquisition of TSE with our experience in delivering number portability solutions. ServiceLink™ Product Launch In July 2005, we introduced ServiceLink—a porting automation product designed to improve the number portability process between wireless and wireline carriers, known as inter-modal porting. This process is currently handled using manual processes such as fax transmission, which can be prone to errors, and is inefficient and expensive to support. The ServiceLink product reduces errors and provides cost and time efficiencies by supporting pre-port communication and automating the porting between wireless and wireline trading partners. Tertio Content Connector Module Launch In 2005, we successfully launched a new addition to our Tertio™ activation solution. The new module, called Tertio Content Connector, provides a unique answer to the challenges of activating next-generation services by helping operators integrate content and service delivery platforms to introduce innovative IP-based services. Service activation systems have typically been built for a limited number of services over specific network technology. In order to keep pace with new service requirements, a lengthy process of coding software adapters for new network elements is often necessary. However, next-generation services bring new challenges. New, open service delivery platforms encourage third party content and application development and use new, IT-based platforms with new interoperability standards. All of this requires support for a more dynamic environment in which services and systems may be introduced, updated or withdrawn more frequently than ever before. Tertio 6.0 Service Activation Release In November 2005, we introduced Tertio 6.0, the latest release of our market leading service activation solution for next-generation services. Our Tertio 6.0 release provides a high performance, multi-domain service activation platform for event driven, automated activation. We extensively revised the product platform with a sophisticated graphical user interface for faster application configuration. As the pace of new service introduction increases, carriers need to improve the efficiency of their service development lifecycle and minimize the cost of integrating new technologies and equipment. This is especially true as services migrate from conventional telecommunications infrastructure to IMS (IP Multimedia Subsystems) and other next-generation architectures. Our Tertio 6.0 release provides for rapid integration with new platforms and is uniquely positioned for convergent activation of services across old and new technologies. LNP 6.0 In December 2005, we introduced LNP 6.0, the newest release of our number portability suite of products. This release included the required support for the North American Numbering Council (NANC) R3.3 changes specific to the Local Service Order Administration (LSOA) and Local Subscription Management Service (LSMS) products which are two of the critical pieces of the carrier side of the North American local number portability solutions provided by Evolving Systems. In addition to supporting the required NANC 3.3 changes, our LNP 6.0 release also included enhancements to our migration and tune-up tools which allow service providers to migrate to Evolving Systems' LSOA and LSMS product from either a competitor's product or from a service bureau model. 4 NumeriTrack International 3.0 In December 2005, we introduced NumeriTrack i3.0 which is our first release of our NumeriTrack product intended for the international markets. The numbering schemes in many international countries vary greatly from the standard 10-digit dialing plan implemented in North America. Consequently, we modified our North American version of NumeriTrack extensively in order to support the requirements of the various dialing plans we see around the world. NumeriTrack i3.0 addresses the need carriers are facing to better manage their number inventory created by the implementation of international number portability and the introduction of new types of services, as well as continued growth in the number of subscribers. Accelerated Filer Status Companies considered accelerated filers under Securities Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, are required to comply with the internal control reporting and disclosure requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for fiscal years ending on or after November 15, 2004. An accelerated filer is defined as a company that meets the following conditions: •Its common equity public float was $75 million or more as of the last business day of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter; •The company has been subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act for a period of at least 12 calendar months; •The company has previously filed at least one annual report pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and •The company is not eligible to use Forms 10-KSB and 10-QSB. As of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2005, our common equity public float was less than $75 million. Therefore, we are not an accelerated filer, as defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, and are not required to comply with the management reporting on internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2005. In September 2005, the SEC extended for one year the compliance dates regarding the internal control reporting requirements rules for companies that are not accelerated filers. If our filing status does not change as of June 30, 2006, the next measurement date, we must begin complying with the internal control reporting and disclosure requirements for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Industry Dynamics Historically, telecommunications carriers have operated in a highly regulated environment. Deregulation in many countries around the globe has increased the number of telecommunications carriers and consequently stimulated competition and product innovation. This increase in competition coupled with the emergence of new telecommunications technologies, such as fiber optics, packet-data networks, digital and wireless telephony as well as Internet-based services has created an industry that is in the midst of significant change. Traditional wireline customers are migrating with an increasing frequency to wireless and broadband services requiring network operators to make large capital expenditures in the areas of broadband and wireless infrastructure, as well as new product offers to differentiate themselves. In response to these market changes, we have broadened our product portfolio through internal R&D, customer-funded initiatives and the acquisition of key new products and technologies. The competitive landscape is continuously changing as the communications industry consolidates through M&A activity among carriers in almost every geographic market. 5 Operations Support Systems ("OSS") OSS encompasses a broad array of software and systems that perform critical functions for telecommunications carriers, such as ordering, inventory, provisioning, activation, service assurance, repair and billing. Ordering systems collect customer information, retrieve current service information, capture and validate new service requests, verify the availability of selected services and transmit completed orders to one or more provisioning OSS. Inventory systems maintain both physical and logical views of all the telecommunications assets required to turn up a service. Carriers use activation systems to turn on services for new customers and to change or add services for existing customers. Service assurance systems allow carriers to perform the testing, monitoring and reporting necessary to maintain appropriate network availability and feed operational data to other business systems. Repair and dispatch systems set up, track and report on service conditions or outages for the carrier's large work force. Carriers use billing systems to collate, manage and report usage information for customer billing. OSS typically operate on a 24x7 basis to support the real-time communications network that is the backbone of the carriers' service offerings. Traditionally, as carriers have added new services, such as wireless or Internet-based services, they have developed multiple, distinct OSS. These legacy, proprietary OSS in place at various carriers often utilize incompatible elements, making interoperability among systems difficult. These OSS are further strained by the many incremental changes that have been made in order to accommodate new computing and network technologies, and new value-added services including call waiting, call forwarding and voice mail, broadband data and video. In addition, carriers have had to adapt their OSS to comply with government or regulatory mandates that in some cases change how systems and processes are required to work. Despite these difficulties, the carriers have been unable to completely replace existing OSS due to the large investment and vast amounts of historical data contained in these systems. As a result, carriers continue to make incremental modifications to these OSS, thereby further increasing their complexity and making it more difficult for the systems to interoperate successfully. Product Portfolio Numbering Solutions Evolving Systems' Numbering Solutions product line includes our LNP and WNP products as well as our NumeriTrack® number inventory and assignment solution. LNP and WNP Our Number Portability software solution enables carriers to comply with U.S. mandates in the Telecom Act and subsequent Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") regulations implementing LNP and WNP. For traditional wireline, wireless networks, as well as Internet Protocol ("IP") networks, this requires service providers to allow customers the ability to retain, or "port", their phone numbers when changing from one service provider to another. Our LNP software for ordering, provisioning, reporting, testing and exchanging information between carriers is widely used by wireline and wireless service providers and is involved in over 35 percent of all porting transactions in the United States each year. In addition, we developed the initial custom software used by all eight regional NPACs in North America to control the porting process. This software receives ported telephone number information from carriers as changes occur and distributes the data to all subscribing carriers in the region. Our software was provided under contract to NeuStar, Inc., formerly a division of Lockheed Martin IMS. Over time, we have expanded our number portability product features and developed other number portability related OSS software products for the wireline and wireless markets. Our full LNP and WNP product line comprises the following collection of products: •OrderPath® order entry; 6 •NumberManager® network provisioning; •LNP DataServer™ data warehousing; •PortExchange™ Inter-carrier Communications Processor ("ICP") pre-porting; •VeriPort™ NPAC testing; •VeriComm™ ICP testing; •ServiceLink™ automated ICP System for WNP; and •Verify™ product suite for monitoring carriers' application communications for optimum service assurance. We are investing in bringing these products to markets outside the United States where deregulation has occurred or is about to occur and number portability is or will soon be required. Number Inventory and Assignment We developed our NumeriTrack® solution in response to the FCC mandated number conservation and number pooling regulations for both wireline and wireless carriers. These regulations, implemented in 2003, resulted from the FCC's concern that the U.S. was running out of 10-digit telephone numbers. As a result, the FCC designed regulations to extend the life of the 10-digit numbering plan well into the 21st century by changing the way phone numbers are allocated to carriers, specifying rules regarding the assignment and classification of those numbers. The regulations also require regular utilization reporting by carriers and articulation of circumstances under which previously underutilized telephone numbers must be returned to the "pool" to be reallocated to other carriers. Our NumeriTrack solution, which has been licensed to six carriers, facilitates compliance with the FCC mandates for both wireline and wireless carriers. Our solution provides inventory management of phone numbers and other assets such as SIM cards, supports inventory assignments and integration with carriers' existing back-office systems. The NumeriTrack solution also contains features for the inventory of and assignment logic for numbers associated with IP addresses and is used by a large carrier in the U.S. for deployment of its Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") service offering. As is the case with our LNP and WNP solutions, the implementation of our NumeriTrack solutions has far-reaching implications for integration with carriers' existing OSS environments and business processes. We are working on adapting our NumeriTrack application for markets outside of the United States. Service Activation Our service activation solution, Tertio™, is employed by carriers to activate new service, including two of the world's largest wireless carriers. The Tertio application is used by some of the world's most advanced and demanding service providers as their next-generation solution and is deployed as the service activation engine for over 40 networks around the world. Our Tertio product provides a flexible operating environment and can be used by carriers to manage their voice, data, and content service needs for both their traditional and broadband IP networks. Tertio is an integrated solution comprised of four components: Tertio Service Composer—a modeling tool that simplifies the creation of new services; Tertio Content Connector—a tool used for activation of next-generation services; Tertio Activation Designer—a tool that is designed to speed network feature activation; and Tertio Service Activation—the platform that provides scalability and performance, flexibility and a graphical interface. 7 Our Tertio solution addresses the entire service lifecycle enabling service providers to better plan, manage and execute the introduction of new services. Tertio allows carriers to introduce new network technologies and eases the burden of integration with existing devices and systems. Mediation Our mediation portfolio consists of network data mediation products and billing mediation. The network mediation products include our Traffic Data Management System ("TDMS"), acquired in the CMS acquisition, and our next-generation product Mediation Central™. Our billing mediation product, Evident™, was acquired as part of the Tertio acquisition. Billing Mediation Billing mediation is the process of collecting network usage data and verifying that usage data is accurate, and is a required pre-condition for generating accurate bills for a carrier's customers. Billing mediation's importance lies in its ability to provide a systematic point of reliability and assurance between network consumption and the billing system input. Our Evident product supports convergent voice, data, and content services. Evident enables the accurate management of data, allowing reconciliation of data inputs and outputs. In addition, Evident provides support for compliance with relevant regulatory, accounting and data integrity requirements. This product also provides service usage data for business intelligence, revenue assurance, and next-generation billing solutions. Our Evident solution can be used by wireline, broadband and wireless carriers and provides carrier-grade support in terms of reliability, performance, and scalability. As carriers bring new services to market they often need a new mediation process to support those new services. Our Evident solution has been designed with the flexibility to support new service concepts and designs. Network Assurance and Data Collection Solutions A common challenge for telecommunications carriers is to create an integration layer between network element ("NE") devices and the OSS applications that provision, monitor and control them. Deploying new devices needed for extending service offerings into the network can therefore be difficult, time consuming and expensive. Our mediation solutions provide a common framework for simplifying the data collection and distribution of critical network data. Our network mediation product, Mediation Central, supports a broad array of technologies that carriers typically deploy in their network. Mediation Central provides support for wireline, broadband, transport and wireless networks. Our Mediation Central product supports both centralized and distributed configurations allowing, for example, carriers to deploy a single solution for all their data collection and distribution needs. We also offer our TDMS solution, which is designed to automate key business processes and make valuable network data available to select employees in the enterprise, including alarm and fault management, capacity and network planning, data collection, mediation, performance management, service activation, service design and assignment, and service quality analysis. TDMS is installed as the narrow band traffic collection data system in three of the nation's largest wireline carriers. Custom Solutions, Professional and Integration Services Since our inception we have developed and supported a variety of custom solutions for the OSS environment. Based on that experience, we have developed domain knowledge that continues to help us serve our customers. As an example, we still maintain and support a complex Cellular Digital Packet Data ("CDPD") network element solution, as well as legacy provisioning systems deployed at a major wireless carrier. 8 Our Professional and Integration Services team provides expert consulting services and advice for the design, customization, integration and deployment for our Numbering Solutions, Service Activation and Mediation product portfolios. The Professional and Integration Services team works closely with the Product Engineering and Development teams to ensure we are up to date with the latest product developments. These services cover all aspects of the project lifecycle including system architecture and design, component design, development and customization, system integration and testing, deployment and production support, program and project level management, domain and product expertise. Our teams work closely with customers and integration partners and have established close, long term relationships with operators in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific regions. Research and Development We expend amounts on research and development ("R&D"), particularly for new products and/or for enhancements of existing products. As discussed in Note 1 in the notes to our consolidated financial statement, R&D is expensed as incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we expensed $1.9 million, $1.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in research and development costs. Business Structure and Strategy for Growth We have developed a product, solutions business model that leverages our products and strong telecommunications domain expertise with a worldwide work force. This business model combines our U.S. presence (headquartered in Englewood, a suburb of Denver, Colorado) and United Kingdom presence (offices in London and Bath, England) with the lower-cost offshore development capabilities provided by our growing Indian subsidiary (with offices in Bangalore, India). We developed this model in response to the downturn in the telecommunications industry, and in 2002, we successfully completed a restructuring plan that resulted in dramatically improved financial results—revenue growth and solid profitability—for our year ended December 31, 2003. In March 2004, we launched Evolving Systems India in the city of Bangalore, with an initial staffing of 15 employees. This subsidiary has now grown to over 100 employees as of March 8, 2006. Utilization of our own development team in India enables us to continue to offer our customers high-quality, lower-cost solutions and a more consistent round-the-clock workday. Beginning in late 2003 and continuing through 2004, we supplemented our organic growth strategy to include three acquisitions; CMS, TSE and Evolving U.K. We have completed integration of CMS, TSE and Evolving U.K. into our business model and operations. We use the customer locations as the basis of attributing revenues to individual countries. Further information regarding our geographic regions is contained in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales and Marketing The primary objective of our sales and marketing efforts is to educate existing and potential customers throughout the telecommunications industry about the depth and breadth of our capabilities, experience and product portfolio. We work with those customers through discovery, concept, business case and implementation to create solutions that reduce cost, increase revenue opportunities or allow compliance with government and regulatory mandates. In addition, we conduct many of our sales activities as a result of responding to requests for proposals and competitive tenders. Our sales and marketing efforts include constant interaction with existing and target customers and prospects, participation in relevant industry bodies, a website presence, presentations at industry conferences and forums, news releases to the industry and other marketing initiatives. Our sales focus is to create 9 solution opportunities for our product offerings. The majority of our sales efforts are conducted by direct sales teams. However, increasingly we are engaging in sales through channel and business partners or system integrators such as Alcatel, Siemens and Accenture who have been selected by our customers for larger solution implementations where our products represent only a portion of the overall solution. We plan to continue the approach of working with partners and system integrators in 2006 and beyond—this is predicated by the success we have seen at Evolving Systems using partners. Product Development and Support Our product development efforts are focused on identifying specific customer business needs as well as market requirements and then developing possible solutions for those needs that leverage our existing product capabilities. Based upon the identified customer business needs, our product development efforts comprise a combination of design and development of new products or features to enhance our existing products, and design and development of new product functionality as identified in our product "roadmaps," funded as research and development. We build investment plans for our three principal product areas and we make other investments in tools and product extensions to accelerate the development, implementation and integration process for customer solutions. We usually do not develop completely new products, major product enhancements or tools until we have at least one customer who has agreed to license what we will develop. Competition The market for telecommunications OSS products is intensely competitive and is subject to rapid technological change, changing industry standards and regulatory developments. We face continuous demand for improved product performance, new product features and rapid integration capabilities, and reduced prices, as well as pressure to accelerate the release of new products and product enhancements. Our existing and potential competitors include many large domestic and international companies and certain of our customers' internal IT organizations, that have substantially greater financial, technological, marketing, distribution and other resources, larger installed customer bases and longer- standing relationships with telecommunications customers than we do. The market for telecommunications software and services is extremely large. Consequently, we currently hold only a small portion of total market share. However, by concentrating our focus on numbering solutions, activation solutions and mediation and assurance solutions, we hold reasonable market share in those three areas. We differentiate ourselves from competitors through our combination of telecommunications domain knowledge, low-cost offshore development, products, services, integration capabilities and strong customer relationships. Our principal competitors in the LNP and WNP market include Telcordia Technologies, Inc., Syniverse Technologies and Tekelec. Our principal competitors in activation are Metasolv and Comptel. In mediation, we compete with many different companies including Intec, Amdocs, TTI, Acterna, Comptel and Metasolv. Many of our customers have large internal development organizations, which develop software solutions and provide services similar to our products and services. As a result, our customers often choose to implement their own solutions rather than choosing solutions we offer. In addition, other integration companies such as Perot and IBM GS compete with us for integration work. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a wide range of factors. We plan to compete by offering quality low-cost solutions that are tailored specifically to the customer. Furthermore, once one of our customers has implemented one of our core software products, we are in a preferable position, in contrast to our competitors, to develop additional functionality or react to changes in our customers' business needs by offering additional products or services. Many of our customer relationships span five years or more with some extending beyond ten years. We believe these long-term relationships also give us a competitive advantage. 10 Significant Customers In 2005, approximately 38% of our consolidated revenues came from three unrelated customers in the telecommunications industry, each of which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. Of these customers, one is in the U.S. and the other two are international. The loss of any one of these customers would have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We presently have U.S. patents on elements of our principal LNP OSS products, NumberManager® and OrderPath®, and we have both a U.S. patent on certain elements of and a pending application for patent protection on certain elements of our OmniPresenceServer™ application. In addition, we have applied for patent protection on elements of our ServiceXpress™ test harness application. Backlog We define backlog as firm non-cancelable sales orders that are anticipated to be delivered and recognized in revenue over the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, our backlog, as defined, was approximately $12.6 million and $12.5 million, respectively. Our backlog, as defined, at December 31, 2005 is comprised of license fees and services of $3.5 million and customer support of $9.1 million compared to license fees and services of $4.5 million and customer support of $8.0 million at December 31, 2004. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we employed 227 people including 73 in the United States, 70 in the United Kingdom and 84 in Bangalore, India. Of our worldwide staff, 74% are involved in product delivery, development, support and professional services, 16% in sales and marketing, and 10% in general administration. Available Information You can find out more information about us at our Internet website located at www.evolving.com. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the SEC. Additionally, these reports are available at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 or on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to Evolving Systems U.K. Acquisition We are subject to financial and operating risks associated with international sales and services. Historically sales of our products have been limited to customers in the United States. Prior to our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. in late 2004, our only international operational experience was with our Indian offshore activities. The acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. resulted in the addition of significant sales and operations outside the United States, including Europe, Asia and Africa. Our 11 failure to manage our sales and operations on a global basis could harm our business and operating results. Our international business is subject to financial and operating risks including: •unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; •difficulties in maintaining effective controls over financial reporting across geographically dispersed entities, including those related to different business practices in foreign countries; •internal control-related risks of running foreign subsidiaries; •changes in the demand for our products and services due to the perception that we are an "American" company in countries where the United States' foreign policy is not viewed favorably; •fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates, tariffs, currency repatriation restrictions and other barriers; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary operations; •import or export restrictions; •greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; •potentially adverse tax consequences and additional tax considerations such as foreign withholding taxes and payment of value added tax (VAT); •potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; •changes in a country's economic or political conditions; and •differing customer and/or technology standards requirements. The indebtedness incurred in connection with the Evolving Systems U.K. acquisition may limit our ability to grow and could adversely affect our financial condition. In partial consideration for our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K., we made a cash payment of $11.0 million, issued 966,666 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock"), issued a short-term secured note with a principal amount of $4.0 million bearing interest at 5.5% per annum and issued long-term secured notes with an aggregate principal amount of approximately $11.9 million bearing interest initially at 11% per annum (increasing to 14% on the second anniversary). The short-term secured note was paid in full as of June 30, 2005. In November 2005, we restructured approximately $13.4 million in debt associated with our 2004 acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. Under the terms of the debt restructuring, the Evolving Systems U.K. sellers agreed to exchange their long-term notes for $8.5 million in cash and approximately $4.9 million in unsecured subordinated notes, due in May 2011. We used proceeds obtained from a five year $8.5 million senior secured term note provided by a commercial finance company to make the cash payments. The restructuring reduced our scheduled principal payments through December 31, 2007, from approximately $12.0 million to $3.0 million. In addition, we added a $4.5 million revolving credit facility with the same commercial finance company to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The indebtedness incurred with respect to the acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. and, possibly, the redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock, is material in relation to prior levels of indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds available to meet our operating needs, to pay the interest due on our secured notes or, if required, to redeem the Series B Preferred Stock. The notes are secured by a general lien on all of our assets. If we are unable to pay the notes as they become due, the holders of 12 the notes could foreclose on all of our assets. The increased level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: •make it difficult for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. If we incur new indebtedness in the future, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Whether we are able to make required payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to satisfy any other future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. Certain provisions of the notes payable issued in conjunction with the restructuring of our debt resulting from our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K. call for the acceleration of payments if certain covenants are breached or cash balance thresholds are achieved. The outstanding notes with our commercial finance company, as well as the sellers of Evolving Systems U.K., contain certain affirmative and negative covenants that, if breached, could result in such notes becoming immediately due and payable. The covenants include our agreement to do the following: •maintain a specified ratio of debt to EBITDA; minimum EBITDA for the trailing twelve months; and ratio of fixed charges to EBITDA; •comply with applicable laws and licensing requirements; •file and pay all applicable taxes as they become due; and •operate in the ordinary course of business. The covenants also include our agreement not to do any of the following (except as specifically authorized in such notes): •liquidate, dissolve or wind-up operations; •pay any dividends or make prepayments on any indebtedness; •acquire any other businesses or entities or make investments in third parties; •sell or transfer a substantial portion of our assets; •incur additional indebtedness or permit any liens on our assets; •change our methods of accounting and record keeping away from generally accepted accounting principles; •change the nature of our business materially •make capital expenditures beyond established thresholds; or •take certain other operational actions. The covenants may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Failure to comply with the covenants, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of the notes. If we are required to pay the notes on an accelerated basis, it would have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition and could cause us to incur additional indebtedness. 13 Additionally, the unsecured notes issued to the Evolving Systems U.K. sellers require us to offer the note holders a prepayment on such notes at the end of any fiscal quarter if we achieve certain minimum cash thresholds. Such a requirement will restrict our liquidity and cash management flexibility. Until the notes are repaid, our ability to engage in transactions or to enter into agreements requiring significant cash investments may be adversely affected. Our stockholders will be diluted by the conversion of outstanding Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Prior to our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K., only one of our stockholders reported beneficial ownership in excess of 5% of our common stock. Each share of Series B Preferred Stock is initially convertible into three shares of our common stock which could result in the issuance of up to 2,899,998 shares of our common stock. If the shares of Series B Preferred Stock are exchanged for shares of our common stock, such stockholders would beneficially own approximately 15% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (after giving effect to such conversions). The sale by such holders of one or more large blocks of our common stock, or the perception that such sales will occur, could have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, such ownership interests could effectively deter a third party from making an offer to buy us, which might involve a premium over our current stock price or other benefits for our stockholders, or otherwise prevent changes in the control or management of Evolving Systems. In addition, there are no restrictions, in the form of a standstill agreement or other agreements with such stockholders, on their ability or their affiliates to purchase additional shares of our common stock and thereby further increase their ownership interests. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to vote on any matters presented to our stockholders together with the holders of common stock. While each share of Series B Preferred Stock initially converts into three shares of our common stock, each such share of Series B Preferred Stock is only entitled to approximately 2.26 votes in order to comply with certain voting rights rules promulgated by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") relating to the fact that the Series B Preferred Stock was issued at a discount to market on the date of issuance. As of the record date, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock were entitled to an aggregate of approximately 2,184,665 votes on all matters presented to the holders of common stock based on their ownership of the Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Stock is voluntarily convertible into our common stock at anytime at the option of the holders thereof, at which time each such share of common stock will be entitled to one vote per share. The holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have preferential rights that may be adverse to holders of our common stock. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have preferential rights with respect to distributions upon a liquidation of Evolving Systems, including certain business combinations deemed to be a liquidation. Accordingly, no distributions upon liquidation may be made to the holders of common stock until the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have been paid their liquidation preference of $3.89 per share (on an as converted to common stock basis), subject to adjustment. As a result, it is possible that, on liquidation, all amounts available for the holders of equity of Evolving Systems would be paid to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, and the holders of common stock would not receive any payment. Additionally, in connection with the Evolving Systems U.K. acquisition we are obligated to file and keep effective a registration statement providing for the resale of the shares of our common stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock. If we fail to keep the registration statement effective, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will have the right to cause us to repurchase for cash the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock for $3.89 per share (on an as converted basis), or approximately $11.3 million. If we are required to make this payment, it would have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity and could cause us to incur additional indebtedness. 14 Additionally, the Series B Preferred Stock contains certain weighted average price based anti-dilution protections that, as long as they remain outstanding, would be triggered if we issued shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments and standard exclusions relating to Company options) below $3.89 per share. However, such anti-dilution adjustments are capped to prohibit the Series B Preferred Stock from converting into 20% or more of our outstanding common stock. In the event that the anti-dilution adjustments are triggered, the holders of our common stock would be diluted to an unknown degree. Furthermore, the mere existence of such anti-dilution protections could make it difficult or impossible for us to issue any common stock below $3.89 per share. In the event the anti-dilution adjustments of the Series B Preferred Stock are triggered, such adjustments would result in a deemed dividend to the Series B Preferred Stock holders that would reduce income available to common stockholders. The charge would be equal to the number of additional shares issuable as a result of the anti-dilution calculation, multiplied by the fair value of the common stock on the date of the issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock, which was $4.64 per share. The deemed dividend charge could cause the price of our common stock to go down. The terms and conditions of the Series B Preferred Stock may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial performance. If we cannot keep the registration of the Series B Preferred Stock effective, the Series B Preferred Stock could become mandatorily redeemable. Currently, the Series B Preferred Stock is classified as non-permanent equity since the events that would require its redemption have not occurred. If we fail to maintain the effectiveness of the related registration statement, at the holders' option the Series B Preferred Stock would become mandatorily redeemable and the instrument would be reclassified as a liability. Upon reclassification, the Series B Preferred Stock would be re-measured at its then current fair value and the difference between its fair value and redemption price would be charged to additional paid-in capital. Such a charge to equity may negatively impact the price of our common stock. Subsequent changes to the fair value of this instrument would be recognized in earnings, as a charge or income, and such amounts could be significant and unpredictable. Risks Related to Our Business Because our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility of the price of our common stock. These quarterly and annual fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: •the size of new contracts and when the related revenue is recognized; •our rate of progress under our contracts; •acquisition and integration costs; •the timing of customer and market acceptance of our products and service offerings; •our ability to effectively manage offshore software development in India; •actual or anticipated changes in U.S. or foreign laws and regulations related to the telecommunications market; •judicial or administrative actions about these laws or regulations; •the nature and pace of enforcement of the Telecom Act as well as other similar foreign statutes, regulations and acts; 15 •product lifecycles; •the mix of products and services sold; •changes in demand for our products and services; •the timing of third-party contractors' delivery of software and hardware; •budgeting cycles of our customers; •changes in the terms and rates related to the renewal of support agreements; •level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; •competition by existing and emerging competitors in the communications software markets; •our success in developing and selling new products, controlling costs, attracting and retaining qualified personnel and expanding our sales and customer focused programs; •software defects and other product quality problems; •changes in our strategy; •the extent of industry consolidation; •foreign exchange fluctuations; and •general economic conditions. Personnel costs are a significant component of our budgeted expense levels and, therefore, our expenses are, to a degree, variable based upon our expectations regarding future revenue. Our revenue is difficult to forecast because the market for our products and services is rapidly changing, and our sales cycle and the size and timing of significant contracts vary substantially among customers. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Any significant shortfall from anticipated levels of demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Based on these factors, we believe our future quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. Furthermore, we believe that in future reporting periods if our operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, it is possible that the market price of our common stock could go down. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage our liquidity. Our cash forecast indicates that we will have sufficient liquidity to cover anticipated operating costs as well as debt service payments for at least the next twelve months, but this could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, or an unexpected adverse event, or combination of events occurs. Therefore, if the timing of cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may require access to additional funds to support our business objectives through another debt restructuring, a credit facility or possibly the issuance of additional equity. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us and not dilutive. 16 If we are unable to properly supervise our software development subsidiary in India, or if political or other uncertainties interfere, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business could be materially harmed. In February 2004, we formed Evolving Systems India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Evolving Systems, to transfer the services provided by our Indian subcontractor, Infosys, to Evolving Systems India. It is difficult managing development staff over multiple time zones. We are currently experiencing a high level of turnover with our Indian development staff as a result of strong competition for technology-based personnel in India. In addition, salary levels in India are steadily increasing, reducing the competitive advantages associated with offshore labor. If we are unable to effectively manage the Evolving India development staff and/or we continue to experience high levels of staff turnover, we may fail to provide quality software in a timely fashion, which could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our customer contracts. Furthermore, political changes and uncertainties in India could negatively impact the business climate there. As a result, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional currency, economic, regulatory and tax risks. A significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Our international operations are subject to the risk factors inherent in the conduct of international business, including: •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •tariffs and other barriers; •political and economic instability; •limited intellectual property protection; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and •potentially adverse tax consequences in connection with repatriating funds. We may not be able to sustain or increase our international revenue or repatriate cash without incurring substantial risks involving floating currency exchange rates and income tax expenses. Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse impact on our international operations and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or challenges to the regulations of the communication industry could hurt the market for our products and services. The market for our traditional North American OSS products was created and has primarily been driven by the adoption of regulations under the Telecom Act requiring Regional Bell Operating Companies ("RBOCs") to implement LNP as a condition to being permitted to provide long distance services. Therefore, any changes to these regulations, or the adoption of new regulations by federal or state regulatory authorities under the Telecom Act, or any legal challenges to the Telecom Act, could hurt the market for our products and services. For example, when the FCC delayed implementation of the Telecom Act with respect to wireless carriers until November 2003, these delays impacted our revenue from our WNP products and services. Likewise, in mid-2001 when Verizon Wireless petitioned the FCC requesting forbearance from this requirement, we saw our wireless customers delay making decisions to purchase WNP products. WNP went into effect in November 2003. Any invalidation, repeal or modification in the requirements imposed by the Telecom Act or the FCC, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, customers may require, or we may find it necessary or advisable, to modify our products or services to address actual or anticipated changes in regulations affecting our customers. This could also materially harm our 17 business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, with our acquisition of Evolving Systems U.K., we are now subject to numerous regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions. Any compliance failures or changes in such regulations could also materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. In the past, and currently, we earn a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers in the communications industry. This has been mitigated somewhat by the expansion of our customer base through our recent acquisitions. However, the loss of any significant customer, delays in delivery or acceptance of any of our products by a customer, delays in the performance of services for a customer, or delays in collection of customer receivables could harm our business and operating results. The integration of entities that we have recently acquired may not achieve the expected results and may result in unexpected liabilities and costs. Although we have completed the integration of CMS, Evolving Systems U.K. and TSE, these acquisitions, or future acquisitions, may present risks and we may be unable to achieve the product, financial or strategic goals intended at the time of any acquisition. For example: •we may not be successful in cross-selling products between Evolving Systems' and the acquired companies' customer bases; •the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses may not be achieved; and •due diligence processes may have failed to identify significant issues with product quality, intellectual property ownership, product architecture, legal and financial contingencies, and product development. In addition, our stockholders may experience additional dilution of their interests in Evolving Systems as a result of the issuance of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. And the price of our stock may go down as stockholders, who received stock in prior acquisitions, elect to sell their shares, or the marketplace does not favorably view the transaction. Based on all of the foregoing, we believe it is possible for future revenue, expenses and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. Our products are complex and have a lengthy implementation process; unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs and delayed payments. Implementing our solutions can be a relatively complex and lengthy process since we typically customize these solutions for each customer's unique environment. Often our customers may also require rapid deployment of our software solutions, resulting in pressure on us to meet demanding delivery and implementation schedules. Delays in implementation may result in customer dissatisfaction and/or damage our reputation which could materially harm our business. The majority of our existing contracts provide for acceptance testing by the customer, which can be a lengthy process. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs, delayed payments, and deferral of revenue recognition. In addition, if our software contains defects or we otherwise fail to satisfy acceptance criteria within prescribed times, the customer 18 may be entitled to cancel its contract and receive a refund of all or a portion of amounts paid or other amounts as damages, which could exceed related contract revenue and which could result in a future charge to earnings. Any failure or delay in achieving final acceptance of our software and services could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Sales of our products typically require significant review and internal approval processes by our customers over an extended period of time. Interruptions in such process due to economic downturns, consolidations or otherwise could result in the loss of our sale or deferral of revenues into later periods and adversely affect our financial performance. Large communications solutions used for enterprise-wide, mission-critical purposes, involve significant capital expenditures and lengthy implementation plans. Prospective customers typically commit significant resources to the technical evaluation of our products and services and require us to spend substantial time, effort and money providing education regarding our solutions. This evaluation process often results in an extensive and lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging between three and twelve months, making it difficult for us to forecast the timing and magnitude of our contracts. For example, customers' budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews may cause potential customers to delay or forego a purchase. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Mergers and acquisitions of large communications companies, as well as the formation of new alliances, have resulted in a constantly changing marketplace for our products and services. Purchasing delays associated with these changes are common. These consolidations have caused us to lose customers and it is possible that we could lose additional customers as a result of more consolidations. In addition, the U.S. communications industry is still recovering from an industry downturn which began in 2000, and many of the companies in the communications industry have kept capital expenditures at historically low levels in response to changes in the communications marketplace; some companies have declared bankruptcy, cancelled contracts, delayed payments to their suppliers or delayed additional purchases. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts, or the loss of a significant customer, could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Many of our products and services are sold on a fixed-price basis. If we incur budget overruns, our margins and results of operations may be materially harmed. Currently, a large portion of our revenue is from contracts that are on a fixed-price basis. We anticipate that customers will continue to request we provide software and integration services as a total solution on a fixed-price basis. These contracts specify certain obligations and deliverables we must meet regardless of the actual costs we incur. Projects done on a fixed-price basis are subject to budget overruns. On occasion, we have experienced budget overruns, resulting in lower than anticipated margins. We may incur similar budget overruns in the future, including overruns that result in losses on these contracts. If we incur budget overruns, our margins may be harmed, thereby affecting our overall profitability. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological change, if we fail to develop or introduce new, reliable and competitive products in a timely fashion, our business may suffer. The market for our products and services is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changes in carrier requirements and preferences and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products that incorporate new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In 19 addition, "internationalizing" products that we have developed for our U.S. customer carriers is a complex process. To compete successfully, we must continue to design, develop and sell enhancements to existing products and new products that provide higher levels of performance and reliability in a timely manner, take advantage of technological advancements and changes in industry standards and respond to new customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in software development, major new product enhancements and new products can require long development and testing periods before they are commercially released and delays in planned delivery dates may occur. We may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities or achieve market acceptance of new products brought to market. In addition, products developed by others may cause our products to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if our products do not perform satisfactorily, or if we have delays in product development, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate. The market for our number portability products is mature in the U.S. and we may not be able to successfully develop new products to remain competitive. The market for our number portability products is mature in the U.S. and we may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities in the U.S. or abroad or achieve market acceptance of new products brought to the market. Although wireless number portability was only recently mandated in the U.S., many of the wireless carriers selected solutions from our competitors and it is unclear how many new opportunities there will be with these carriers. If we are unable to identify new product opportunities in the U.S. or areas outside of the U.S., sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. The steps that we have taken to reduce costs may have a negative impact on our ability to grow and generate future revenue. We have taken steps to reduce our expenses, such as reductions in staff and general cost control measures. If, as a result of such cost reductions, we have not adequately responded to balance expenses against revenue, or if our fixed costs cannot be reduced enough, our financial condition could be materially harmed. Likewise, cutbacks in staff may have an adverse impact on our ability to generate future revenue, because we may not have sufficient staffing to meet any unexpected increases in customer demand for our products. The communications industry is highly competitive and if our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance or price, our customers could purchase products and services from our competitors. Our primary markets are intensely competitive and we face continuous demand for improved product performance, new product features and reduced prices, as well as intense pressure to accelerate the release of new products and product enhancements. Our existing and potential competitors include many large domestic and international companies, including some competitors that have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technological, marketing, distribution and other resources, larger installed customer bases and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. Our principal competitors in the LNP and WNP market include Telcordia Technologies, Inc., Syniverse Technologies and Tekelec. Our principal competitors in activation are Metasolv and Comptel. In mediation, we compete with many different companies with no single dominant competitor. Customers also may offer competitive products or services in the future since customers who have purchased solutions from us are not precluded from competing with us. Many telecommunications companies have large internal development organizations, which develop software solutions and provide services similar to the products and services we provide. We also expect competition may increase in the future from application service providers, existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our 20 existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on numerous factors. For example, the following factors affect our ability to compete successfully: •how well we respond to our customers' needs; •the quality and reliability of our products and services and our competitors' products and services; •the price for our products and services, as well as the price for our competitors' products and services; •how well we manage our projects; •our technical subject matter expertise; •the quality of our customer service and support; •the emergence of new industry standards; •the development of technical innovations; •our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; •regulatory changes; and •general market and economic conditions. Some of these factors are within our control, and others are not. A variety of potential actions by our competitors, including a reduction of product prices or increased promotion, announcement or accelerated introduction of new or enhanced products, or cooperative relationships among competitors and their strategic partners, could negatively impact the sales of our products and we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products. Revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or to properly identify and address the demands of new markets. This is particularly true in new markets where standards are not yet established. Our failure to adapt to emerging market demands, respond to regulatory and technological changes or compete successfully with existing and new competitors would materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our ability to manage future expansion, if any, effectively will require us to attract, train, motivate and manage new employees successfully, to integrate new management and employees into our overall operations and to continue to improve our operations, financial and management systems. We may not be able to retain personnel or to hire additional personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Because of the complexity of our software solutions, a significant time lag exists between the hiring date of technical and sales personnel and the time when they become fully productive. We have at times experienced high employee turnover and difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel. In addition, our stock option plan terminated on January 18, 2006 and under Nasdaq rules we will be required to obtain stockholder approval to establish a new equity compensation plan. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining this approval, our ability to attract or retain employees may be harmed. Our failure to retain personnel or to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services. 21 Our products are complex and may have errors that are not detected until deployment, and litigation related to warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. Our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising out of the use of or defects in our products. These limitations, however, tend to vary from customer to customer and it is possible that these limitations of liability provisions may not be effective. We currently have errors and omissions insurance, which, subject to customary exclusions, covers claims resulting from failure of our software products or services to perform the function or to serve the purpose intended. To the extent that any successful product liability claim is not covered by this insurance, we may be required to pay for a claim. This could be expensive, particularly since our software products may be used in critical business applications. Defending such a suit, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and require the time and attention of key management personnel, either of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business reputation could be harmed by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or the eventual outcome of these claims. Our measures to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate and if we fail to protect those rights, our business would be harmed. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have U.S. patents on elements of our LNP products, NumberManager® and OrderPath®, and elements of our OmniPresenceServer™ application and have applied for patent protection on various other elements of our OmniPresenceServer application and our ServiceXpress™ Test Harness application. In addition, we have registered or filed for registration of certain of our trademarks. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or to develop similar technology independently through reverse engineering or other means. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the U.S. or abroad may not be adequate or others may independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around any of our patents. In the event that we are infringing upon the proprietary rights of others or violating licenses, we may become subject to infringement claims that may prevent us from selling certain products and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. It is also possible that our business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties may assert infringement claims against us. If we become liable to any third party for infringing its intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain licenses, or to cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and any outcome unfavorable to us could materially harm our business. Furthermore, we could incur substantial costs in defending against any intellectual property litigation, and these costs could increase significantly if any dispute were to go to trial. Our defense of any litigation, regardless of the merits of the complaint, likely would be time-consuming, costly, and a distraction to our management personnel. Adverse publicity related to any intellectual property litigation also could harm the sale of our products and damage our competitive position. Certain software developed or used by Evolving Systems, as well as certain software acquired in our acquisitions of CMS, TSE or Evolving Systems U.K., may include or be derived from software that is made available under an open source software license. 22 •Such open source software may be made available under a license such as the GNU General Public License ("GPL") or GNU Lesser General Public License ("LGPL") which imposes certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works based on the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for these derivative works available to the public or license the derivative works under a particular type of open source software license, rather than the license terms we customarily use to protect our software. •There is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the terms addressing the extent to which a derivative work based on open source software may be subject to these licenses. We believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable open source licenses. However, if the owner of any open source software were to successfully establish that we had not complied with the terms of an open source license for a particular derivative work based on that open source software, we may be forced to release the source code for that derivative work to the public or cease distribution of that work. •We generally prohibit the combination of our proprietary software with open source software. Despite these restrictions, parties may combine our proprietary software with open source software without our authorization, in which case such parties could be forced to release to the public the source code of our proprietary software. Disruptions from terrorist activities or military actions may have an adverse effect on our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and throughout the world and acts of war may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. We are unable to predict whether war and the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. The trading price of our stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, merger and acquisition activity, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, general stock market and economic considerations and other events or factors. This may continue in the future. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of stock of many technology companies and often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. As a result of the foregoing factors, our common stock may not trade at or higher than its current price. Sales of large blocks of our stock may result in the reduction in the market price of our stock and make it more difficult to raise funds in the future. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that such sales will occur could 23 also produce this effect. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities, the compliance with which requires substantial amounts of management time and company resources. Any material weaknesses in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and Nasdaq, have recently issued new requirements and regulations and are currently developing additional regulations and requirements in response to recent laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with certain of these rules, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is likely to require the commitment of significant managerial resources. In addition, establishment of effective internal controls is further complicated because we are now a global company with multiple locations and IT systems. We are currently reviewing our material internal control systems, processes and procedures for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Such a review may result in the identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls. Disclosures of material weaknesses in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operation of our business. In addition, the notes issued in connection with the Evolving Systems U.K. acquisition prohibit us from declaring dividends to our common stockholders during the term of the notes. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Certain provisions of our charter documents, employment arrangements and Delaware law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts that could result in the payment of a premium price to our stockholders. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Issuance of preferred stock, while providing desired flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In 1999, our board of directors designated 250,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock that contain "poison pill" provisions. In connection with the Evolving Systems U.K. acquisition, we issued 966,666 shares of Series B Preferred Stock. We have no current plans to issue additional shares of preferred stock. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a "business combination" with an "interested stockholder" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became 24 an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 and certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, including a classified board of directors, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by discouraging or preventing takeover attempts that might result in the payment of a premium price to our stockholders. Our executive officers have entered into management change in control agreements with us. Each agreement generally provides for acceleration on vesting of options, 50% upon a change in control (as defined in such agreements) if the executive remains employed with the new entity, or 100% in the event such executive's employment is terminated. The acceleration of vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure and may have the effect of discouraging a merger proposal, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of us. Our Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of vesting under certain circumstances. Upon certain changes in control of us, vesting on some options awarded to directors may be accelerated. In addition, the successor corporation may assume outstanding stock awards or substitute equivalent stock awards. If the successor corporation refuses to do so, such stock awards will become fully vested and exercisable for a period of 15 days after notice from us but the option will terminate if not exercised during that period. As noted above, the acceleration on vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure. We are very limited in our ability to issue additional shares of common stock. Upon the expiration of our stock option plan on January 18, 2006, we had approximately 1.2 million authorized and unreserved shares of common stock available for issuance. We are, therefore, limited in our ability to issue shares of common stock which may hinder our ability to raise capital, use our common stock as currency for future acquisitions or increase the number of shares of common stock available for issuance under our stock option plan to attract or retain key employees. To increase our authorized shares of common stock requires the approval of the stockholders owning a majority of our then issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Our last two attempts to obtain stockholder approval to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock have been unsuccessful due to lower than required stockholder participation. We may be unable to obtain stockholder approval in the future of an increase in our authorized shares of common stock. General risk statement Based on all of the foregoing, we believe it is possible for future revenue, expenses and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. Furthermore, we believe that it is possible that in any given quarter or fiscal year our operating results could differ from the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event or in the event that adverse conditions prevail, or are perceived to prevail, with respect to our business or generally, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 