Item 1A. Risk Factors We believe the following summarizes the risk factors relating to our business: Our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. Our revenues and our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. These include: — changes in the national, regional or local economic climate; — actual and threatened terrorist attacks and international conflicts and their impact on travel; — local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, hotel rooms; — the attractiveness of the hotels in our system to consumers and competition from other hotels; — the quality, philosophy and performance of the managers of the hotels in our system; — increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors such as increases in the price of energy, healthcare or insurance; — travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious diseases or pest infestation, either perceived or real; — changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; and — the need to periodically repair and renovate the hotels in our system. Changes in any of these conditions could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and result in reduced occupancy, ADR and RevPAR or could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have a limited ability to pass through increased operating costs in the form of higher room rates, so that such increased costs could result in lower operating margins. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete successfully, our business may be materially harmed. The lodging industry is highly competitive. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities and quality of accommodations. We compete with other national limited and full service hotel companies as well as various regional and local hotels. Many of our competitors have a larger network of locations and greater financial resources than our company. Additionally, new and existing competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels, resulting in a decrease in occupancy, ADR and RevPAR for our hotels. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our hotel locations thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the geographic concentration of the hotels in our system, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. Of the 64 hotels in our system at December 31, 2005, 49 are located in Oregon, Washington, Idaho or Montana. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition may be significantly affected by the economy of the Pacific Northwest, which is dependent in large part on a limited number of major industries, including agriculture, tourism, technology, timber and aerospace. These industries may be affected by: — changes in governmental regulations and economic conditions; — the relative strength of national and local economies; and — the rate of national and local unemployment. In addition, companies in these industries may decide to relocate all or part of their businesses outside the Pacific Northwest. Any of these factors could materially affect the local economies in which these industries operate and where we have a presence. Other adverse events affecting the Pacific Northwest, such as economic recessions or natural disasters, could cause a loss of revenues for our hotels in this region, which may be greater as a result of our concentration of assets in these areas. In addition, we operate or market multiple hotels within several markets. A downturn in general economic or other relevant conditions in these specific markets or in any other market in which we operate could lead to a decline in demand in these markets and cause a loss of revenues from these hotels. Our expenses may remain constant even if revenues decline. The expenses of owning property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from a hotel. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. In such instances, our financial condition and ability to service debt could be adversely affected by: — interest rate levels; — the availability of financing; — the cost of compliance with government regulations, including zoning and tax laws; and — changes in government regulations, including those governing usage, zoning and taxes. Our inability to sell real estate if and when desired may adversely affect our financial condition. Real estate assets generally cannot be sold quickly. In general, we may not be able to vary our portfolio of hotels or other real estate promptly in response to economic or other conditions. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our assets could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to service debt, including our debentures. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our hotels. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively integrate new hotels into our operations, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We intend to grow our hotel operations partly by acquiring whole or partial interests in hotels. However, we cannot assure you that: — we will be able to successfully integrate these new hotels or new hotel products into our operations; — these new hotels or new hotel products will achieve revenue and profitability levels comparable to our existing hotels; or — to the extent integration occurs, our business will be profitable. Based on our experience, newly acquired, developed or converted hotels typically begin with lower occupancy and room rates, thereby resulting in lower revenue. Our expansion within our existing markets could adversely affect the financial performance of our existing hotels in those markets and thus negatively impact our overall results of operations. Expansion into new markets may also present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. Our inability to anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our management and management information and reservation systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to the new markets could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our franchisees terminate or fail to renew their relationship with our company, our franchise revenue will decline. As of December 31, 2005, there were 27 hotels in our system that were owned by others and operated under franchise agreements with us. At December 31, 2005, four of those were under temporary arrangements that were entered into as part of the sale of the property by us to a third party and expire in early 2006. For the other 23 agreements, although they generally specify a fixed term, they typically contain various early termination provisions, such as the right to terminate upon notice by paying us a termination fee, or the right to terminate if we fail to contribute a negotiated level of revenue to the franchisee through our reservation systems. We cannot assure you that these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms. If these franchise agreements are not renewed, or are terminated prior to the expiration of their respective terms, the resulting decrease in revenue and loss of market penetration could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and completing acquisition opportunities, which could limit our ability to implement our long-term growth strategy and result in significant expenses. We intend to pursue a full range of growth opportunities, including identifying hotels for acquisition, development, management, rebranding and franchising. We compete for growth opportunities with national and regional hospitality companies, some of which have greater name recognition, marketing support, reservation system capacity and financial resources than we do. Our ability to make acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our relationships with owners of existing hotels and certain major hotel investors, financing acquisitions and renovations and successfully integrating new hotels into our operations. We may be unable to find suitable hotels for acquisition, development, management, rebranding or franchising on acceptable terms, or at all. Competition with other hotel companies may increase the cost of acquiring hotels. Even if suitable hotels are identified for acquisition, we may not be able to find lenders or capital partners willing to finance the acquisition of the hotels on acceptable terms. Further, we may not have adequate cash from operations to pursue such growth opportunities. Our failure to compete successfully for acquisitions, to obtain suitable financing for acquisitions we have identified or to attract and maintain relationships with hotel owners and major hotel investors could adversely affect our ability to expand our system of hotels. An inability to implement our growth strategy could limit our ability to grow our revenue base and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Hotel acquisitions could fail to perform in accordance with our expectations, and our hotel development, redevelopment and renovation projects might be more costly than we anticipate. We intend to acquire additional hotels and we may acquire other operations in the future. We also intend to continue the redevelopment and re-branding of other acquired hotels into “Red Lion” hotels. In addition, we expect to develop new hotels in the future, depending on market conditions. Hotel redevelopment, renovation and new project development are subject to a number of risks, including: — construction delays or cost overruns; — risks that the hotels will not achieve anticipated performance levels; and — new project commencement risks such as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. As a result of these risks, we could incur substantial costs for a project that is never completed. Further, financing for these projects may not be available or, even if available, may not be on acceptable terms. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, development, redevelopment or renovation of the hotels in our system could impact expected revenues, negatively affect our reputation among hotel customers, owners and franchisees and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks associated with real estate ownership may adversely affect revenue or increase expenses. As of December 31, 2005, our hotel system contained 64 hotels located in 11 states and one Canadian province, with 11,330 rooms and 550,929 square feet of meeting space. We managed 37 of these hotels, including 22 owned hotels, 13 leased hotels and two third-party owned hotels. The remaining 27 hotels were owned and operated by third-party franchisees. We also own commercial and other properties. Accordingly, we are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real property. Revenue from our hotels and other real estate may be adversely affected by changes beyond our control, including the following: — changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; — changes in local real estate market conditions; — increases in interest rates, and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing and capital leases; — increases in property and other taxes; — the impact of present or future environmental legislation and adverse changes in zoning laws and other regulations; and — compliance with environmental laws. An increase in interest rates or property and other taxes could increase expenses and adversely affect our cash flow. Adverse conditions such as those discussed above could cause the terms of our borrowings to become unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we were in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more hotels at times that might not permit realization of the maximum return on our investments. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Our properties are subject to risks relating to acts of God, terrorist activity and war and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties. Some types of losses, such as those from earthquake, hurricane, terrorism and environmental hazards, may be either uninsurable or 14 Table of Contents too expensive to justify insuring against. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, war (including the potential for war) and terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), epidemics (such as SARs and bird flu), travel-related accidents, as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict, which impact domestic and international travel, have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. Terrorism incidents such as the events of September 11, 2001 and wars such as the Iraq war in 2003 significantly impact international travel and consequently global demand for hotel rooms. In addition, inadequate preparedness, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of our business. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations, we could be subject to fines or other restrictions on our business. We collect and maintain information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including maintaining guest preferences to enhance our customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes and credit card information. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the U.S. and by various contracts we operate under. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may subject us to inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to service our guests and market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Due to the shareholdings of our Chairman together with other members of the Barbieri family, we may be limited in our ability to undertake a change of control transaction requiring shareholder approval. As of March 30, 2006, Donald K. Barbieri, our Chairman of the Board, had sole voting and investment power with respect to 8.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Heather Barbieri, his ex-spouse, had sole voting and investment power with respect to 7.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Pursuant to a trust agreement, Donald K. Barbieri and Heather Barbieri share voting and investment power with respect to 5.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Richard L. Barbieri, who is also a director and Donald K. Barbieri’s brother, beneficially owned 3.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 30, 2006. In addition, we believe that other members of the Barbieri family who are not directors, executive officers or 5% shareholders individually hold outstanding common stock. As such, to the extent they are willing and able to act in concert, they may have the ability as a group to approve or block actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including a merger or a sale of all the assets of our company or a transaction that results in a change of control. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. Consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we do not own all the properties in our system of hotels. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners but have not always been able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in litigation, arbitration or other settlement actions. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to governmental regulations affecting the lodging industry; the costs of complying with governmental regulations, or our failure to comply with such regulations, could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements. Increased government regulation could require us to make unplanned expenditures and result in higher operating costs. Further, we are subject to laws governing our relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. An increase in the minimum wage rate, employee benefit costs or other costs associated with employees could increase expenses and result in lower operating margins. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to remove access barriers or make unplanned, substantial modifications to our hotels to comply with the ADA or to comply with other changes in governmental rules and regulations, which could reduce the number of total available rooms, increase operating costs and have a negative impact on revenues and earnings. Any failure to comply with ADA requirements or other governmental regulations could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damage awards against us. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the months from May through October generally accounting for a greater portion of annual revenues than the months from November through April. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks such as labor force shortages and cash flow problems. Further, if an adverse event such as an actual or threatened terrorist attack, international conflict, regional economic downturn or poor weather conditions should occur during the months of May through October, the adverse impact to our revenues could likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Failure to retain senior management could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. Mr. Coffey, Mr. Narayan and Mr. Taffin are particularly important to our future success due to their substantial experience in the lodging industry, and with either the Red Lion brand or our company. The loss of the services of these members of our senior management team could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for Mr. Coffey, Mr. Narayan, or Mr. Taffin could be difficult, and competition for such personnel of similar experience is intense. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our senior management. If we are unable to locate lessees for our office and retail space our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. We own for lease to others over 375,000 square feet of office and retail space in Spokane, Washington and Kalispell, Montana. We are subject to the risk that leases for this space might not be renewed upon their expiration, the space may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting such space (including the cost of required renovations) might be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Vacancies could result due to the termination of a tenant’s tenancy, the tenant’s financial failure or a breach of the tenant’s obligations. We may be unable to locate tenants for rental spaces vacated in the future or we may be limited to renting space on unfavorable terms. Delays or difficulties in attracting tenants and costs incurred in preparing for tenants could reduce cash flow, decrease the value of a property and jeopardize our ability to pay our expenses. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with managing and leasing commercial properties owned by third parties. We plan to continue to manage and lease properties owned by third parties. Risks associated with these activities include the risks that: — the contracts (which may be cancelable upon relatively short notice or upon major events, including sale of the property) will be terminated by the property owner or will be lost in connection with a sale of such property; — the contracts might not be renewed upon expiration or might not be renewed on terms consistent with current terms; and — rental revenues upon which management and leasing fees are based will decline as a result of general real estate market conditions or specific market factors affecting properties managed or leased by us, resulting in decreased management or leasing fee income. The performance of our entertainment division is particularly subject to fluctuations in economic conditions. Our entertainment division, which comprised 6.0% of our total revenues from continuing operations in 2005, engages in event ticketing and the presentation of various entertainment productions. We have in the past attracted additional hotel guests by cross selling to them tickets to entertainment events through our TicketsWest subsidiary. Our entertainment division is vulnerable to risks associated with changes in general regional and economic conditions, the potential for significant competition and a change in consumer trends, among others. In addition, we face the risk that Broadway shows and other entertainment productions will not tour the Pacific Northwest or that such productions will not choose us as a presenter or promoter. We face risks relating to litigation. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against our company, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money and we may not be insured for such a loss. If this were to occur it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may experience material losses in excess of insurance coverage. We carry comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, flood, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and rental loss insurance covering our properties. There are, however, certain types of catastrophic losses that are not generally insured because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur with respect to any particular property, we could lose our capital invested in the property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property and, in the case of debt which is with recourse to us, would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material losses in excess of insurance coverage will not occur in the future. Any such loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental risks that could be costly. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of compliance with future environmental legislation. Under current federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such contaminated property properly, may adversely affect the ability of the owner of the property to borrow using such property 17 Table of Contents as collateral for a loan or to sell such property. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or transferred or in which businesses may be operated, and may impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have not performed Phase II environmental assessments on two of our owned properties for which Phase II assessments were recommended, because we determined that any further investigation was not warranted. We cannot assure you that these properties do not have any environmental concerns associated with them. While we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any material noncompliance, liability or claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties, we have not performed Phase I environmental assessments on all of our leased properties. We cannot assure you that we will not discover problems that currently exist but of which we have no current knowledge that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties (whether neighbors such as dry cleaners or others) unrelated to us. We have incurred debt financing and may incur increased indebtedness in connection with future acquisitions. A substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by individual properties. Neither our Articles of Incorporation nor our Bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance acquisitions and renovations and for general corporate purposes. Accordingly, we could become highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions (including increases in interest rates) and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Our indebtedness is, and will likely continue to be, secured by mortgages on our owned hotels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets, including our hotels, to foreclosure. Adverse economic conditions could cause the terms on which borrowings become available to be unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we are in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more hotels in our system at times that may not permit realization of the maximum return on our investments. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase debt service requirements on variable rate debt and could reduce the amount of cash available for various corporate purposes. The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through third-party travel websites such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. If these internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 