Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Important Factors Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that have been made pursuant to the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We depend on sales to transaction card companies for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our business is derived from orders placed by certain transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction cards, and variations in the timing of such orders can cause significant fluctuations in our sales. Sales to transaction card companies and manufacturers of transaction cards accounted for approximately 84% and 86% of our total sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The traditional hot stamp hologram that we have supplied for many transaction cards has been our primary source of revenue for over twenty years. Certain customers began to transition from the hot stamp hologram to an integrated holographic magnetic stripe (“HoloMag”) that we supply and have cancelled plans to make this transition, due to a small number of incidents in which certain card terminals had been affected by electro-static discharge (“ESD”) from static electricity carried on cards incorporating the first generation of HoloMag. These customers have continued to purchase the traditional hot stamp hologram we supply. As a result of being advised of the ESD issue and in response to requests from customers we developed a second generation HoloMag product that addresses ESD. We are currently offering to customers a second generation version of HoloMag and began shipping the product in limited quantities in early 2007, although no assurance can be given that such second generation version of HoloMag will be accepted by our customers. Further there can be no assurance that a competitor of ours will not develop an acceptable product that is adopted by our customers. To the extent that our sales of the traditional hot stamp patch holograms decline without replacing such sales with sales of new products, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents VISA terminated the HoloMag program in 2006 and we do not expect any HoloMag sales to VISA in 2007. Additionally, we depend on sales of hot stamp holograms to VISA authorized card manufactures for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to manufacturers of VISA transaction cards were approximately 35% and 37% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Currently we are an authorized supplier of the VISA Dove hot stamp holograms to manufacturers of VISA brand transaction cards. On March 15, 2005, VISA announced its intention to phase out the Dove hot stamp hologram that we supply for the VISA card, and to replace it with an integrated holographic magnetic stripe. On April 8, 2005, we entered into an Agreement with VISA, pursuant to which we were authorized to supply HoloMag to VISA approved card manufacturers. We began shipping HoloMag to VISA authorized card manufacturers in the second half of 2005. On March 14, 2006, we were informed by VISA that, as a result of the ESD issue, VISA was effectively ceasing the HoloMag program (the “VISA Decision”). VISA then moved to include either the Dove hot stamp hologram or the Mini Dove hot stamp hologram, both of which we supply, as the security device on VISA cards. By letter dated November 7, 2006, we were advised by VISA that VISA was terminating the VISA HoloMag Agreement. Sales of VISA products to VISA authorized card manufacturers in 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2006 2005 (Dollars in thousands) Product Hot stamp holograms $ 6.0 $ 5.8 HoloMag 5.4 6.1 Total $ 11.4 $ 11.9 Sales of HoloMag to VISA authorized card manufacturers are not expected to continue in 2007. Sales of the hot stamp holograms to VISA authorized card manufacturers are expected to continue in 2007. If we were to lose a substantial portion of our hot stamp hologram business with VISA without replacing it with new product sales, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to obtain anticipated orders from VISA authorized card manufactures or if we experience delays or cancellations of orders from card manufacturers, our business and financial performance will be materially and adversely affected. VISA informed us that they would seek indemnification for costs incurred for a remediation program they implemented when ceasing the HoloMag program. In VISA’s March 2006 correspondence to us at the time it ceased the HoloMag program, VISA stated its view that “a remediation program for impacted stakeholders may be necessary” and that VISA would seek indemnification from us for such costs and/or claims. We have been evaluating VISA’s actions and claims and continue to discuss the matter with VISA. We believe that we have complied with the VISA HoloMag Agreement and that the HoloMag product complied with all standards and specifications contained in such agreement and we are continuing to evaluate VISA’s actions and claims and discuss the matter with VISA. In the event that VISA or other third parties assert claims against us our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We depend on sales to MasterCard for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss of which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to MasterCard were approximately 35% and 31% of sales for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have an agreement with MasterCard, as amended, pursuant to which the Company is the exclusive supplier of MasterCard holograms and holographic magnetic stripes, HoloMag™. In the quarter ended September 30, 2005, MasterCard advised its member financial institutions around the world that it will allow 15 Table of Contents them to choose among card designs that incorporate either the traditional hot stamp patch hologram or HoloMag, both of which are supplied by the Company. Sales of HoloMag to MasterCard were not significant in 2006. On February 9, 2007, MasterCard advised its certified card manufacturers and us that effective immediately they were no longer offering the first generation HoloMag product on newly issued cards due to a decrease in the demand for the product. To date, MasterCard has not approved the second generation HoloMag product. MasterCard has informed us that they are continuing to test the second generation HoloMag product. The agreement with MasterCard expires on February 28, 2013, subject to automatic renewal thereafter. If we were to lose a substantial portion of our business with MasterCard without replacing it with new product sales, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to obtain anticipated orders from MasterCard or if we experience delays or cancellations of orders from MasterCard, our business and financial performance will be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate and the price of our common stock may change in response to those fluctuations. Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future depending on factors such as: • market acceptance of second generation HoloMag, • timing of customer orders, • customer business cycles, • cancellation or expiration of customer contracts or programs, • card expiration patterns, • inventory replenishment, • increased competition, • changes in our and our competitors’ pricing policies, • changes in the cost of materials or labor, • cost and availability of the services of subcontractors, • costs of recruiting or relocating personnel, • increased research and development expenses, • expenses associated with litigation, • market acceptance of our products, • the time required for customer testing and evaluation, • costs associated with implementing changes in operations, • investments in new technology and equipment, • changes in facility requirements, • changes in our business strategy, • changes in reserve levels, and • general economic factors. Because our revenues and operating results may fluctuate, it is possible that in some future quarter, our revenues or operating results will be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decrease. 16 Table of Contents We are in a competitive, highly-fragmented industry with many companies competing to deliver a highly-specialized product, which may lead to declining sales or reduced prices for our products. The holographic, magnetic tape and product security industries are highly competitive and highly fragmented. Our competitors, many of which are larger than us, may have greater financial and other resources than we do and may take away market share or compete with us on the basis of price, which may erode our prices and margins. Our industry has become increasingly competitive over the past several years as low cost foreign producers have entered our target markets, and low cost holographic producers that previously focused on non-security applications are increasingly competing in security applications. The holographic industry has also experienced consolidation, which has increased the breadth and scale of some of our competitors. Increasing competition in the market for our security holograms has resulted in declining sales prices for certain products including hot stamp holograms for transaction cards and certain product authentication labels. Competitive pressures may force us to reduce prices, which can adversely affect our results of operations. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as: • price, • technology, • product quality, and • customer service. In addition, an increased use of non-holographic methods or devices in place of our products could reduce demand for our products. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the technological advances necessary to maintain any competitive advantages. We also cannot assure you that the bases of competition in the industries in which we compete will not shift. If we are not able to successfully protect our intellectual property our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is dependent to some extent upon our proprietary technology. We utilize a combination of patents, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, as well as restricted access and other forms of intellectual property protection to safeguard certain of our proprietary technology and processes. We also hold certain trademarks with respect to certain products and services. We cannot be certain as to the degree of protection offered by any of our patents or as to the likelihood that patents will be issued for any of our pending applications. Certain of our patents have expired and others have been declared invalid in the past. Other patents will expire over the next several years. We can not assure you that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or that our confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our patents or of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business may suffer if we are sued for infringement or cannot obtain licenses to these rights on commercially acceptable terms. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. In the past, third-parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, infringement by our products. Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in significant litigation costs and diversion of management attention, and could require us to enter into royalty and license agreements that may be disadvantageous to us or cause other harm to our business. If litigation is successful against us, it could result in invalidation of our proprietary rights and liability for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We depend on third-party suppliers and subcontractors for some key products and processes, and we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if those suppliers or subcontractors fail to supply us. We purchase certain key materials used in the manufacture of our products, and subcontract certain production functions or products from third parties some of which are sole suppliers. In some cases, we do not have supply contracts with our suppliers, and operate on a purchase order basis. In the case of HoloMag, we have a single supplier, CFC International, Inc., an ITW Company, with whom we have a supply contract which was amended on July 26, 2006. Also at that time we negotiated a settlement with CFC International, Inc. that resulted in a reduction of our payable to them of approximately $1.0 million. We may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner if our suppliers or subcontractors become unwilling or unable to supply us, or if they increase their prices. Our inability to obtain key product components or to have certain processes performed on our behalf could cause delays or reduce product shipments, which could cause our relationship with customers to suffer and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board (OTCBB), an electronic quotation service. The OTCBB does not impose listing standards or requirements, does not provide automatic trade executions and does not maintain relationships with quoted issuers. Stocks traded on the OTCBB may experience: • a loss of market makers, • a lack of readily available bid and ask prices, • a greater spread between the bid and ask prices of its stock, and • a general loss of liquidity compared to established stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market. In addition, many investors have policies against purchasing or holding OTCBB securities. Both trading volume and the market value of our stock have been, and will continue to be, affected by trading on the OTCBB, which may adversely affect the price of our stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their shares. If we were unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. While we have added significantly to our talent pool in recent years our future success continues to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified: • management, • engineering, • manufacturing, • research and development, • sales and marketing, and • customer support personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing personnel or attract and retain additional personnel. We may be subject to significant product liability in connection with the products which we provide to our customers. We provide holograms in connection with a wide range of our customers’ products, in which case it is possible that we are subjecting ourselves to product liabilities in association with those products or in connection 18 Table of Contents with the holograms used with those products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be available to cover any such claim or available in amounts sufficient to cover all potential liabilities. Since a significant percentage of our sales are derived from overseas customers, our exports and business may be subject to some risks related to doing business internationally. Sales derived from customers outside the United States were 35% and 34% of our total sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively. All of our export sales are presently billed in U.S, dollars. Our international sales are subject to risks, including: • U.S. and international regulatory requirements and policy changes, • exchange rate fluctuations, • political and economic instability, • difficulties in accounts receivable collection, • tariffs and other barriers, and • difficulty in attracting, retaining and managing international representatives. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales, and consequently our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to environmental regulation and is always subject to environmental liability. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations, we could be subject to monetary damages and injunctive action, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the extent future laws and regulations are adopted or interpretations of existing laws and regulations change, new requirements may be imposed on our future activities or may create liability retroactively. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of outstanding options, together with the potential sales of such shares in the public market, could result in substantial dilution of your investment, a detrimental effect on our liquidity and ability to raise additional capital, and a significant decline in the market value of our common stock. As of March 23, 2007, we had 19,034,138 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding and 3,033,722 additional shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock options. If the holders of shares of common stock acquired upon the exercise of outstanding options or the lapse of the sale restrictions on restricted stock grants were to sell a significant amount of their shares into the open market, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a price we deem appropriate. Crane & Co. Inc. has certain rights which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On June 30, 2000, we entered into a stock purchase agreement with Crane & Co., Inc. (“Crane”) under which Crane purchased 3,387,720 shares of our common stock. This stock is not currently registered for public resale, but may be sold (i) in privately negotiated transactions, (ii) pursuant to Rule 144 in the public market, and subject to the volume restrictions of Rule 144, or (iii) pursuant to a registration statement filed by the Company. Crane has the right to demand registration on Form S-3 in the event we are eligible to register securities on a Form S-3. Since our stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board we are not currently eligible to register our securities on a Form S-3. Crane also has piggy-back registration rights which require us to register its stock in the 19 Table of Contents event we file a registration statement to sell common stock. On November 30, 2005 we were informed by Crane & Co., Inc. of their intention to sell a portion or all of their shares in an orderly manner. If the sale of these shares is not conducted in an orderly fashion it could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. If we are required to register Crane’s common stock, we will incur legal, accounting and other expenses associated with the registration and sale, and the registration and sale of Crane’s common stock may have an impact on the market for our common stock. As of March 23, 2007, Crane had not sold any of its shares of our common stock. Effects of anti-takeover provisions could inhibit the acquisition of ABNH. Our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Although we have no current plans to issue shares of preferred stock, the potential issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of: • discouraging potential acquisitions proposals, • delaying or preventing a change in control, and • limiting the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Future acquisitions may entail certain operational and financial risks. Our growth strategy includes expanding our products and services, and we may seek acquisitions to strategically expand our business. We review from time to time potential acquisitions of businesses, technologies, or products complementary to our business and periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including some or all of the following: substantial cash expenditures and capital investments; potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; amortization of certain intangible assets; difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of the acquired companies; diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; the inability to manage the growth expected for various acquisitions; potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies in the process of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds; and combining different corporate cultures. We cannot assure you that any acquisition will result in long-term benefits to us or that our management will be able to effectively manage the acquired businesses. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 