Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business THE COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND CANNOT GUARANTEE PROFITABLE OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE ON OUR PART TO ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY MAY CAUSE US TO REDUCE OR EVENTUALLY CEASE OPERATIONS. The Company incurred a net loss of $13,432,261 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, and had an accumulated deficit of $126,873,491. The Company incurred a net loss of $9,583,756 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012. If the Company continues to incur significant losses, it may not be able to continue operations. Even if it can continue operations, its cash reserves may be depleted earlier than currently anticipated, and the Company may be required to limit its future growth objectives to levels corresponding with its then available cash reserves. DUE TO OUR HISTORY OF LOSSES, OUR ACCOUNTANTS HAVE RAISED SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT WITH RESPECT TO OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN As noted in our financial statements, we incurred a net loss of $13,432,261 for the year ended December 31, 2013 and had an accumulated deficit of $126,873,491. We incurred a net loss of $9,583,756 for the year ended December 31, 2012. Although we have generated revenue, we are still operating at a significant net loss, and may continue to incur significant losses for a period of time. We will be required to obtain additional financing in order to repay existing contractual obligations coming due in 2014, and to continue to cover operating losses and working capital needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds from our operating or financing activities to support our continued operations. The audit report of M&K CPAS, PLLC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 contained a paragraph that emphasizes the substantial doubt as to our continuance as a going concern. This is a significant risk that we may not be able to generate or raise enough capital to remain operational for an indefinite period of time. IF THE COMPANY DOES NOT OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, IT WILL BE REQUIRED TO DISCONTINUE OPERATIONS. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had cash in the amount of $443,472 and total liabilities in the amount of $699,937. We also had working capital of $805,195 as of December 31, 2013. Over the last several years, the Company’s operations have been funded primarily through the sale of both equity and debt securities. However, the Company still requires additional financing to implement its business plan for the next twelve months and beyond. The Company’s current cash on hand is insufficient for it to be able to maintain its operations at the current level through the end of the fiscal 2014. In order to continue to pursue its business plan, the Company will require additional funding. If the Company is not able to secure additional funding, the implementation of its business plan will be delayed and its ability to maintain or expand operations will be impaired. The Company intends to secure additional funding through debt or equity financing arrangements, increased sales generated by its operations and reduced expenses. OUR ABILITY TO REPAY THE LOAN TO FORDHAM IS PREDICATED ON FUTURE SALES GROWTH AND GENERATING POSITIVE CASH FLOW FROM THE BUSINESS OR SECURING OTHER FINANCING On March 24, 2014, Fordham Capital Partners, LLC extended a $500,000 revolving loan to the Company. The Note requires monthly payments of principal of $10,417 plus interest, commencing on April 24, 2014 and continuing until February 24, 2015, followed by a final balloon payment of the entire unpaid principal balance of the Note and all accrued and unpaid interest on March 24, 2015. The amount of revenues generated by the business has been insufficient to support ongoing daily operations. Previously, we had to rely on new equity or debt financing in order to satisfy other financing incurred by the Company. There are no assurances that the Company will grow sales sufficiently to generate the requisite positive cash flow or secure additional debt or equity financing in order to satisfy the Fordham loan without the liquidation of the assets securing the credit. OUR SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS. WE MAKE NO PROJECTIONS REGARDING THE VIABILITY OF OUR FUNCTIONAL FOOD INGREDIENTS AND WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL ACHIEVE ANY PARTICULAR RESULTS. We have not conducted, nor have others made available to us, results of market research indicating how much market demand exists for Z Trim, our functional food ingredient. We are relying on the current concerns over obesity, weight-health issues, and the rising cost of both foods and health care to drive demand for Z Trim’s line of products offered to the food and nutritional beverage industry. We have only recently begun exploring the use of our products for non-food usage (such as industrial products) and are also unable to determine whether there will be a viable non-food market going forward. We cannot assure you that we will be able to gain the market acceptance necessary to achieve profitability or that a significant market will exist for our products. We make no projection with respect to our future income, assets or business. No expert has reviewed our business plan for accuracy or reasonableness. It is likely that our actual business and results of operations will differ from those presented herein. WE DERIVE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR CURRENT REVENUES AND ORDER BOOKINGS FROM A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS. Our revenues and order bookings are concentrated with a small number of customers. The loss of one or more of our customers or material changes to the contracts with or payment terms of these customers may result in a significant business interruption through reduced revenues, reduced cash flows, delays in revenues or cash flows and such delays or reductions could have a material adverse impact on our future revenue growth and results of operations, as well as our ability to continue operations. OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITY IS CURRENTLY OPERATING AT A LOSS. Our original manufacturing facility was merely a pilot plant and our second facility, owned an operated by our toll manufacturer, is still ramping up. In order to fully implement our business plans we will need to successfully ramp up production at our second facility, move the operations to larger facilities, develop strategic partnerships or find other means to produce greater volumes of finished product, and we cannot assure that we will be able to do so or to achieve positive gross margins and profitable operations. 7 WE HAVE LAUNCHED A NEW INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION IN WHICH WE HAVE NO PRIOR EXPERIENCE. The new industrial products division will focus on the manufacture, marketing and sale of products designed for industrial applications, such as oil drilling fluids, petroleum coke, charcoal briquettes, hydraulic fracturing, and paper and wood adhesives. We have no prior experience in the manufacturing, marketing or sale of industrial products. We may not be successful in these activities and may never generate significant revenues or profitability from our industrial products division. THE AVAILABILITY AND COST OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS THAT WE USE IN OUR BUSINESS ARE SUBJECT TO WEATHER AND OTHER FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. All of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using agricultural products, mainly corn bran and oat hull. Historically, the costs of corn bran and oat hull are subject to fluctuations depending upon a number of factors which affect commodity prices in general and over which we have no control, including crop conditions, weather, government programs and purchases by foreign governments. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging, and energy costs. We currently do not hedge against changes in commodity prices. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. WE ARE SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDENT ON OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITY AND THE ABILITY OF OUR TOLL MANUFACTURER, AVEKA NUTRA PROCESSING, TO RAMP UP PRODUCTION; ANY OPERATIONAL DISRUPTION COULD RESULT IN A REDUCTION OF OUR SALES VOLUMES AND COULD CAUSE IT TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES. Our revenues primarily are and are expected to continue to be derived from the sale of functional ingredients made from dietary fiber that we manufacture at ANP’s facility in Iowa. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if the ANP facility experiences a major accident or is damaged by severe weather or other natural disasters. In addition, the ANP operation may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above; in addition, we may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. IF COMPETITION INCREASES, OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN CUSTOMERS OR EXPAND OUR BUSINESS COULD BE IMPAIRED. Competition is intense in our targeted industries, including nutraceuticals, functional food ingredients, oils, and gums. A large number of businesses are engaged in various fat replacement industries. Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that are widely recognized as providing similar calorie reduction. In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial, and technical resources than we have. If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives or continue operations. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE VALUABLE, AND ANY INABILITY TO PROTECT THEM COULD REDUCE THE VALUE OF OUR PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND BRAND. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights as well as to our products and services. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Also, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. Although we seek to obtain patent protection for our innovations, it is possible we may not be able to protect some of these innovations. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Furthermore, there is always the possibility, despite our efforts, that the scope of the protection gained will be insufficient or that an issued patent may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 8 OUR INABILITY TO SECURE AND PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY RESULT IN COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMING LITIGATION AND COULD IMPEDE US FROM EVER ATTAINING MARKET SUCCESS. We license or hold several patents as well as copyrights and trademarks with respect to our products and expect to continue to file applications in the future as a means of protecting our intellectual property. In addition, we seek to protect our proprietary information and know-how through the use of trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other similar security measures. With respect to patents, there can be no assurance that any applications for patent protection will be granted, or, if granted, will offer meaningful protection. Some of the technology employed by Z Trim in its products is licensed to the Company by the USDA. The USDA patent expires 2015 and we will therefore lose our patent protection with respect to that patent at that time. Although the Company has additional process patents on file and, in 2012, jointly with the USDA, filed a provisional patent for an insoluble fiber product, there can be no assurance that new patents will in fact be issued or that they will provide effective protection. In addition, we recently received two other patents in our own name: Patent Nos. 7,763,301 and 7,625,591. Additionally, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology, or reverse engineer our products, or that any confidentiality agreements upon which we rely to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. THE PATENT FOR THE TECHNOLOGY WE CURRENTLY EMPLOY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS EXPIRES IN 2015. The patent for the technology we employ in manufacturing our products is licensed to us by the USDA. The USDA patent expires in 2015 and we will therefore lose our patent protection with respect to that patent at that time, which will provide new opportunities to our competitors and significantly reduce barriers to entry. Although we have additional process patents on file and in 2012, jointly with the USDA, filed a provisional patent for an insoluble fiber product, there can be no assurance that new patents will in fact be issued or that they will provide effective protection. CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND OTHERS MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PREVENT DISCLOSURE OF TRADE SECRETS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY INFORMATION AND MAY NOT ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We rely on the legal protections of trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information nor result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. OUR COMPETITORS MAY DESIGN PRODUCTS AROUND OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION. We hold an intellectual property portfolio, including patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection. Our competitors, however, may design around our patent claims, rendering our patent protection ineffective against such competitors. Similarly, our competitors may independently develop technology similar to our trade secrets and technical know-how. Such occurrences could increase competitive pressure on our marketing and sales efforts, and adversely affect our results of operation. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN AVOIDING CLAIMS THAT WE INFRINGE OTHERS’ PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND COULD BE REQUIRED TO PAY JUDGMENTS OR LICENSING FEES. Any claim that we infringe a third party’s patents or other intellectual property rights, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming and result in costly litigation. If any of our practices are found to be in violation of another party’s rights, we may be required to pay monetary damages or licensing fees, which could be substantial, or cease making products which are deemed to be infringing. Any of those occurrences could substantially harm our business, results and financial condition. IF OUR FOOD PRODUCTS BECOME ADULTERATED, MISBRANDED, OR MISLABELED, WE MIGHT NEED TO RECALL THOSE ITEMS AND MAY EXPERIENCE PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS IF CONSUMERS ARE INJURED. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. In such a case, or in the event that injuries are determined to arise from our products, we could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATION IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO A RANGE OF SANCTIONS THAT WILL ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. We are subject to extensive regulation, and compliance with existing or future laws and regulations may require us to incur substantial expenditures or require us to make product recalls. As such, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations intended to protect public health and the environment. Food production and marketing are highly regulated by a variety of federal, state, local, and foreign agencies. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional or different regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, we advertise our products. Our advertisements could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations and of new laws or regulations restricting our right to advertise products. Our operations are also subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Trade Bureau, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, and by various state and local authorities. Such regulation covers virtually every aspect of our operations, including production facilities, marketing, pricing, labeling, packaging, advertising, water usage, waste water discharge, disposal of hazardous wastes and omissions and other matters. Violations of any of these laws and regulations may result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties being levied against us, permit revocation or modification, performance of environmental investigatory or remedial activities, voluntary or involuntary product recalls, or a cease and desist order against operations that are not in compliance. These laws and regulations may change in the future and we may incur material costs in our efforts to comply with current or future laws and regulations or to affect any product recalls. These matters may have a material adverse effect on our business. 9 IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT SATISFY CERTAIN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL OR MAY BE REQUIRED TO OBTAIN MULTIPLE LICENSES TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS. Z Trim has self-certified that all components of its products are generally recognized as safe (“GRAS”) according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations. A GRAS designation exempts the products from the regulations of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, permitting the sale of the products anywhere in the United States without obtaining a license. Should the products lose their GRAS designation, Z Trim will be required to sell the products as food additives by obtaining a license to sell from each individual state in which sales would occur. There is no assurance that Z Trim would be able to successfully obtain or maintain licenses in all states in which sales are expected to be made or that the cost of obtaining and maintaining these licenses would not limit its ability to sell its products. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PERIODIC LITIGATION AND OTHER REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNEXPECTED EXPENSE OF TIME AND RESOURCES. We are a defendant from time to time in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, including litigation brought by former employees. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees. WE HAVE IDENTIFIED MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD IMPACT NEGATIVELY OUR ABILITY TO REPORT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ACCURATELY AND IN A TIMELY MANNER. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We have identified material weaknesses in these controls. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In our annual evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting conducted by management as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, at December 31, 2013, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that, as of December 31, 2013, we did not maintain effective control over financial reporting based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” herein. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that we prepare will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a – 15(c) and 15d – 15(e)). Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of the end of the period covered in this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the required time periods and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. If we are unsuccessful in developing and implementing or following a remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control over financial reporting as our business evolves, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the market value of our common stock. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF REVENUE AND/OR PROFITABILITY. Our success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our management team and other key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, transitions of important responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 10 Risks Relating to our Common Stock OUR STOCK TRADES AT LOW PRICES PER SHARE AND TRADES ON THE OTC: PINK ELECTRONIC QUOTATION SYSTEM, WHICH PROVIDES LIMITED LIQUIDITY AND SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY. Since our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Markets Group’s OTCQB electronic quotation system (the “OTCQB”), investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. Being a penny stock also could limit the liquidity of our common stock and limit the coverage of our stock by analysts. The OTCQB generally provides less liquidity than stock exchanges like NYSE or NASDAQ. Stocks trading on the OTC markets may be very thinly traded and highly volatile. Therefore, holders of the Company’s common stock may be unable to sell their shares at any price, whether or not such shares have been registered for resale. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common shares at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common shares, significant sales of our common shares, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our share price to fall. THERE MAY BE A LIMITED PUBLIC MARKET FOR OUR SECURITIES; WE PRESENTLY FAIL TO QUALIFY FOR LISTING ON ANY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES. Our common stock currently does not meet all of the requirements for initial listing on a national securities exchange. Specifically, the bid price of our common stock is less than the minimum bid price required to obtain a listing. Trading in our common stock continues to be conducted in the over-the-counter market. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock, and our common stock may be less attractive for margin loans, for investment by larger financial institutions, as consideration in possible future acquisition transactions or other purposes. THE FLUCTUATION IN OUR STOCK PRICE MAY RESULT IN A DECLINE IN, OR THE LOSS OF, THE VALUE OF YOUR INVESTMENT. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past, and may continue to do so. In 2013 our stock had high and low bid prices of $2.70 and $0.52, respectively. In 2012, our common stock had high and low bid prices of $3.50 and $0.07 per share, respectively. This volatility is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. Factors affecting potential volatility include: - differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; - our cash resources and our ability to obtain additional funding; - announcements of private or public sales of our securities; - announcements by us or a competitor of business development or exhibition projects; - our entering into or terminating strategic business relationships; - changes in government regulations; - changes in our revenue or expense levels; - fluctuations in operating results and general economic and other external market factors; - negative reports on us by security analysts or changes in analysts' recommendation or projections; - short selling of our stock in the market; - developments and resolution of current litigation that we are a party to; - announcements of new products or technologies by us or our competitors. The occurrence of any of these events may cause the price of the common stock to fall. In addition, the stock market in general has recently experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance or financial condition of individual companies. Any broad market or industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of operating performance or prospects. Companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities often are subject to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. 11 SHARES ELIGIBLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied the required holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price, if any, of our securities. EXERCISES OF STOCK OPTIONS, WARRANTS AND OTHER CONVERTIBLE SECURIIES WILL DILUTE YOUR PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP AND COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO FALL. As of April 15, 2014, we had outstanding stock options to purchase 11,238,062 shares of common stock and outstanding warrants to purchase 16,688,265 shares of our common stock, at prices ranging from $1.50 to $0.01 per share. Additionally, we have reserved up to a total of 18,000,000 shares (inclusive of the 11,238,062 outstanding stock options) to be issued pursuant to equity awards under our Incentive Compensation Plan. The exercise, conversion or exchange of stock options, warrants or convertible securities will dilute the percentage ownership of our other stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional securities. WE HAVE ADDITIONAL SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR ISSUANCE, WHICH, IF ISSUED, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE RIGHTS OF THE HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 200,000,000 shares of our common stock, 1,000,000 shares of Series I Preferred Stock and 1,000,000 shares of Series II Preferred Stock. The common stock and preferred stock, as well as the awards available for issuance under the Incentive Compensation Plan, can be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. We will not be required to seek, and will generally not seek, stockholder approval in connection with our equity offerings. Any future issuances of such stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of us held by public stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividends, liquidation rights and voting rights and could adversely affect the voting power and the rights of our holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of the preferred stock may be used as an “anti-takeover” device without further action on the part of our stockholders, and may adversely affect the holders of the common stock. OUR PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDER CURRENTLY HAS THE ABILITY TO EXERT SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE IN DETERMINING THE OUTCOME OF ALL CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS OR OTHER MATTERS WHICH REQUIRE THE APPROVAL OF OUR STOCKHODERS AND MAY HAVE DIFFERENT INTERESTS THAN YOU. Brightline Ventures I, LLC (“Brightline I”) Brightline Ventures I-B, LLC (“Brightline I-B”) and Brightline Ventures I-C, LLC ((“Brightline I-C”), and collectively with Brightline I and Brightline I-B, “Brightline”) beneficially own approximately 61.1% of our common stock. As a result, Brightline has a significant influence in determining the outcome of all corporate transactions or other matters which require approve of our stockholders, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, the power to elect directors to the board of directors, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Brightline may prevent or frustrate attempts to effect a transaction or series of transactions that is or are in the best interest of the Company or minority stockholders. The interests of Brightline may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in our control, even when a change in control may be in the best interest of the Company or the other stockholders, and might affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. OUR STOCK PRICE MAY DROP UNEXPECTEDLY DUE TO SHORT SELLING OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE MARKET. We have experienced and may continue to experience unexpected declines in our stock price due to manipulation of the market by individuals who profit by short selling our common stock. Short selling occurs when an individual borrows shares from an investor through a broker and then sells those borrowed shares at the current market price. The "short seller" profits when the stock price falls because he or she can repurchase the stock at a lower price and pay back the person from whom he or she borrowed the stock, thereby making a profit. We cannot assure you that short sellers will not drive the stock price down in the future, causing decline in the value of your investment. 12 WE DO NOT PLAN TO PAY DIVIDENDS TO HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends to the holders of the Common Stock at any time. Accordingly, investors in our Common Stock must rely upon subsequent sales after price appreciation as the sole method to realize a gain on investment. There are no assurances that the price of Common Stock will ever appreciate in value. Investors seeking cash dividends should not buy our securities. BECAUSE THE SEC IMPOSES ADDITIONAL SALES PRACTICE REQUIREMENTS ON BROKERS WHO DEAL IN OUR SHARES, WHICH ARE PENNY STOCKS, SOME BROKERS MAY BE UNWILLING TO TRADE THEM. THIS MEANS THAT YOU MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY IN RESELLING YOUR SHARES AND MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF THE SHARES TO DECLINE. Our stock is a penny stock. The SEC generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative, low-priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. 13 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 