Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, including those set forth below, that could have a negative effect on our financial condition and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or other Red Lion communications. 9 Table of Contents The lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hospitality and leisure companies in the future. The lodging industry is comprised of numerous national, regional and local hotel companies and is highly competitive. Competition for occupancy is focused on three major segments of travelers: business travelers, convention and group business travelers and leisure travelers. All three segments are significant occupancy drivers for our hotel system and our marketing efforts are geared towards attracting their business. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities and quality of accommodations. We compete against national limited and full service hotel brands and companies, as well as various regional and local hotels in the midscale and upscale full-service hotel segments of the industry. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, a larger network of locations and greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Additionally, new and existing competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain customers depends on our success in differentiating and enhancing the quality, value and efficiency of our product and customer service. We also compete with other hotel brands and management companies for hotels to add to our system, including through management and franchise agreements. Our competitors include management companies as well as large hotel chains that own and operate their hotels and franchise their brands. As a result, the terms of prospective franchise and management agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In addition, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties in connection with future management or franchise agreements. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, our market share and operating results could be diminished, resulting in a decrease in occupancy, ADR and RevPAR for our hotels. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our hotel locations, thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. Our revenues and operating results may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to: • The attractiveness of our hotels to consumers and competition from other hotels; • The quality, philosophy and performance of the employees of our hotels; • The need to periodically repair and renovate the hotels in our system; • The lack of availability of capital to allow us to fund renovations and investments; • Changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; • Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel; • Increases in operating costs, due to inflation and other factors such as minimum wage requirements, overtime, healthcare, working conditions, work permit requirements and other labor-related costs, energy prices, insurance and property taxes, as well as increases in construction or associated renovation costs; • Regulations and changes therein relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises; • Impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, heightened security measures and other national, regional or international political and geopolitical conditions; 10 Table of Contents • Travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious diseases; • The impact of internet intermediaries on pricing; • Oversupply of hotel rooms in markets in which we operate; • Restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations, or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations; • Possible requirements to make substantial modifications to our hotels to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other governmental or regulatory actions; and • The financial condition of third-party property owners and franchisees, which may impact their ability to fund amounts required for renovations as required under management and franchise agreements. Any of these factors could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and result in reduced occupancy, ADR and RevPAR, or could otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition including government imposed fines or private litigants winning damage awards against us. General Economic Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Results A downturn in the national, regional or local economic climate could reduce the demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services and put pressure on room rates. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes which would harm the operation of our hotels. We rely heavily on our employees to provide high-quality personal service at our hotels. At certain of our owned and leased hotels, employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and it’s possible in the future attempts could be made to unionize our employees at other locations. Any labor dispute or stoppage could harm our ability to provide high-quality personal services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and harm our results of operations. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brand. If demand for our hotels decreases or the value of our name, image or brand diminishes, our business and operations would be harmed. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by maintaining innovative, attractive and comfortable properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business would be harmed if our public image or reputation were to be diminished by the operations of any of the hotels in our system. Our brand name and trademarks are integral to our marketing efforts. If the value of our name, image or brand were diminished, our business and operations would be harmed. Our business is capital intensive and our hotel acquisition, development, redevelopment and renovation projects might be more costly than we anticipate. We are committed to keeping our properties well maintained and attractive to our customers in order to enhance our competitiveness within the industry. This creates an ongoing need for cash, and to the extent we, our franchisees or owners of any hotels we manage cannot fund expenditures from cash generated from operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. In addition, we intend to acquire additional hotels in the future, either through direct purchase or joint venture. Hotel redevelopment, renovation and new project development are subject to a number of risks, including: • Construction delays or cost overruns; 11 Table of Contents • Numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • Uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; and • Potential environmental problems. As a result, we could incur substantial costs for projects that are never completed. Further, financing for these projects may not be available or, even if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. The availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in part on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, development, redevelopment or renovation of the hotels in our system could impact expected revenues and availability of funds, negatively affect our reputation among hotel customers, owners and franchisees and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, including the carrying costs of our assets. Our expenses may remain constant or increase even if revenues decline. The expenses of owning property are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in revenues to a hotel. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through third-party travel websites such as Travelocity.com and Expedia.com. If these internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected. Risks associated with real estate ownership may adversely affect revenue or increase expenses. We are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real property. Revenue and cash flow from our hotels and other real estate may be adversely affected by, and costs may increase as a result of, changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: • Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • Changes in local real estate market conditions; • Increases in interest rates, and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing and capital leases; • Increases in property and other taxes; and • The impact of present or future environmental legislation and adverse changes in other governmental regulations. These adverse conditions could potentially cause the terms of our borrowings to change unfavorably. In such circumstances, if we were in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more hotels at times that might not permit realization of the maximum return on our investments. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore our ability to promptly sell one or more of our hotels in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions is limited. The real estate market, including the market for our hotels, is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. If we decide to sell one or more of our hotels, we may be unable to do so and, even if we are able to sell the hotels, it may take us a long time to find willing purchasers and the sales may be on unfavorable terms. We also may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel can be sold. If we do not have funds available for such purposes, our ability to sell the hotel could be restricted or the price at which we can sell the hotel may be less than if these improvements were made. In addition, it may be difficult or impossible to convert hotels to alternative uses if they become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to an alternative use would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to service debt, including our debentures. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our hotels. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. The nature of our responsibilities under our hotel management agreements, as well as our responsibilities to enforce brand standards under both management and franchise agreements may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees and hotel owners and joint venture partners; however, we may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in franchisees leaving our system of hotels, or possibly result in litigation, arbitration or other legal actions. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the period from May through October generally accounting for the greatest portion of our annual revenues. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks during this period, including labor force shortages, cash flow problems, regional economic downturns, poor weather conditions, actual or threatened terrorist attacks and international conflicts. The adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Our properties are subject to risks relating to natural disasters, terrorist activity and war and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results without adequate insurance coverage or preparedness. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties. We carry comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, flood, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for our properties. However, certain types of catastrophic losses, such as those from earthquake, volcanic activity, terrorism and environmental hazards, may exceed or not be covered by our insurance coverage because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, war and terrorist activity, including the potential for war and threats of terrorist activity, epidemics, travel-related accidents, as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict, which 13 Table of Contents impact domestic and international travel, have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. In addition, depending on the severity, a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of our business. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations, we could be subject to fines or other restrictions on our business. We collect and maintain information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including maintaining guest preferences to enhance our customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes and credit card information. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the U.S. and by various contracts under which we operate. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may subject us to inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to service our guests and market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, noncompliance with applicable privacy regulations, either by us or in some circumstances noncompliance by third parties engaged by us, could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks, increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. We have registered the following trade names and associated trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office: Red Lion, WestCoast, Net4Guests, Stay Comfortable and TicketsWest. We have also registered some of these trademarks in Canada and Mexico, and are in the process of obtaining trademark registrations in Asia and Europe. We also own various derivatives of these trademarks, all of which are registered with or have a registration application pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot be assured that the measures we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental regulations. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of compliance with future environmental legislation. Under current federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such contaminated property properly, may adversely affect the ability of the owner of the property to borrow using such property as collateral for a loan or to sell such property. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or transferred or in which businesses may be operated, and may impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our acquisition of a hotel, a Phase I environmental assessment is conducted by a qualified independent environmental engineer. A Phase I environmental assessment involves an on-site inspection and researching historical usages of a property and databases containing registered underground storage tanks and other matters to determine whether an environmental issue exists with respect to the property which needs to be addressed. If the results of a Phase I environmental assessment reveal potential issues that warrant further investigation, a Phase II environmental assessment, which may include soil testing, ground water monitoring or borings to locate underground storage tanks, will be ordered. It is possible that Phase I and Phase II environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that there will be material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns of which we will not be aware. Phase I environmental assessments have been performed on all properties owned by us, although they have not been performed on all of our leased properties. 14 Table of Contents We have not performed Phase II environmental assessments on two of our owned properties for which Phase II assessments were recommended, because we determined that any further investigation was not warranted for materiality reasons. We cannot assure you that these properties do not have any environmental risks associated with them. While we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any material noncompliance, material liability or material claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties, we cannot assure you that these properties do not have any environmental concerns associated with them. We cannot assure you that we will not discover problems that currently exist, but of which we have no current knowledge, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by third parties unrelated to us. We face risks relating to litigation. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against us, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money and we may not be insured for such a loss. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely impacted by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, accessibility and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits in the future may be instituted against us and we may incur material damages and expenses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the geographic concentration of the hotels in our system, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. Of the 53 hotels in our system at December 31, 2007, 41 are located in Oregon, Washington, Idaho or Montana. Our results of operations and financial condition may be significantly affected by the economy of the Pacific Northwest, which is dependent in large part on a limited number of major industries, including agriculture, tourism, technology, timber and aerospace. These industries may be affected by: • Changes in governmental regulations and economic conditions; • The relative strength of national and local economies; and • The rate of national and local unemployment. In addition, companies in these industries may decide to relocate all or part of their businesses outside the Pacific Northwest. Any of these factors could materially affect the local economies in which these industries operate and where we have a presence. Other adverse events affecting the Pacific Northwest, such as economic recessions or natural disasters, could cause a loss of revenues for our hotels in this region. Our concentration of assets within this region puts us at greater economic risk. In addition, we operate or market multiple hotels within several markets. A downturn in general economic or other relevant condition in these specific markets or in any other market in which we operate could lead to a decline in demand in these markets and cause a loss of revenues from these hotels. The results of some of our individual hotels are significantly impacted by group contract business and other large customers, and the loss of such customers for any reason could harm our operating results. Group contract business and other large customers, or large events, can significantly impact the results of operations of our hotels. These contracts and customers vary from hotel to hotel and change from time to time. Such contracts are typically for a limited period of time after which they may be eligible for competitive bidding. The impact and timing of large events are not always predictable and are often episodic in nature. The operating results 15 Table of Contents for our hotels can fluctuate as a result of these factors, possibly in adverse ways, and these fluctuations can harm our overall operating results. If our franchisees terminate or fail to renew their relationship with our company, our franchise revenue will decline. As of December 31, 2007, there were 21 hotels in our system that were owned by others and operated under franchise agreements. Franchise agreements for three hotels expired subsequent to that date and will leave our system of hotels during 2008. In addition, one hotel under a management contract expired subsequent to that date and has since left our system of hotels. Franchise agreements generally specify a fixed term and contain various early termination provisions, such as the right to terminate upon notice by paying us a termination fee. We cannot assure shareholders that these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms. All franchised hotels were required to meet Red Lion’s upscale brand standards by the end of 2007. Currently, we expect sixteen franchised hotels to meet our elevated brand standards. We anticipate that between two and four franchised hotels may not meet the elevated brand standards, which may result in the termination of these franchises in the first half of 2008. If these or other franchise agreements are not renewed, or are terminated prior to the expiration of their respective terms, the resulting decrease in revenue and loss of market penetration could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and completing acquisition opportunities, which could limit our ability to implement our long-term growth strategy and result in significant expenses. We intend to pursue a full range of growth opportunities, including identifying hotels for acquisition, development, management, rebranding and franchising. Our ability to make acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our relationships with owners of existing hotels and certain major hotel investors, financing acquisitions and renovations and successfully integrating new hotels into our operations. We may be unable to find suitable hotels for acquisition, development, management, rebranding or franchising on acceptable terms, or at all. Competition with other hotel companies may increase the cost of acquiring hotels. Even if suitable hotels are identified for acquisition, we may not be able to find lenders or capital partners willing to finance the acquisition of the hotels on acceptable terms. Further, we may not have adequate cash from operations or from our available debt capacity to pursue such growth opportunities. Our failure to compete successfully for acquisitions, to obtain suitable financing for acquisitions we have identified or to attract and maintain relationships with hotel owners and major hotel investors could adversely effect our ability to expand our system of hotels. An inability to implement our growth strategy could limit our ability to grow our revenue base and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. If hotel acquisitions fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if we are unable to effectively integrate new hotels into our operations, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Based on our experience, newly acquired, developed or converted hotels typically begin with lower occupancy and room rates, thereby resulting in lower revenue. Our expansion within our existing markets could adversely affect the financial performance of our existing hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively impact our overall results of operations. Expansion into new markets may also present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. Additionally, any new hotels or enhanced or upgraded hotel amenities may fail to achieve revenue and profitability levels comparable to our existing hotels. Our inability to anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our management and management information and reservation systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to the new markets could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We rely on our central reservation system for occupancy at our hotels and any failures in such system could negatively affect our revenues and cash flows. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of technology and systems including those utilized for property management, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty program and distribution. These technologies can be expected to change guests’ expectations, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced requiring further investment capital. We maintain a hotel reservation system that allows us to manage our rooms inventory through various distribution channels, including our websites, and execute rate management strategies. As part of our marketing strategy, we encourage guests to book on our website, which guarantees the lowest rate available compared to third-party travel websites. The development and maintenance of our central reservation system and other technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes for such technology. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. If our systems fail to operate as anticipated, or we fail to keep up with technological or competitive advances, our revenues and cash flows could suffer. We have incurred debt financing and may incur increased indebtedness in connection with future acquisitions, capital expenditures or for other corporate purposes. A substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by individual properties. Neither our Articles of Incorporation nor our Bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance acquisitions and renovations and for general corporate purposes. Accordingly, we could become highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Our indebtedness is, and will likely continue to be, secured by mortgages on our owned hotels. We cannot assure shareholders that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets, including our hotels, to foreclosure. Adverse economic conditions could cause the terms on which borrowings become available to be unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we are in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more of our owned hotels at times that may not permit realization of the maximum potential return on our investments. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase debt service requirements on our variable rate credit facilities and could reduce the amount of cash available for general corporate purposes. Failure to comply with debt covenants could adversely affect our financial results or condition. In September 2006, we entered into a $50 million revolving credit facility that includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, the most restrictive of which are financial covenants dealing with leverage, interest coverage and debt service coverage. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with our covenants and had no amounts outstanding under the facility. We believe we will be able to comply with such requirements in the future, although failure to do so could adversely affect our results or financial condition and may limit our ability to obtain financing. For additional information, see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our current or future joint venture arrangements may not reflect solely our best interests and may subject these investments to increased risks. We may in the future acquire interests in other properties through joint venture arrangements with other entities. Partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks. Some of these acquisitions may be financed in whole or in part by loans under which we are jointly and severally liable for the entire loan amount along with the other joint venture partners. The terms of these joint venture arrangements 17 Table of Contents may be more favorable to the other party or parties than to us. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, investing in a property through such arrangements may subject that investment to risks not present with a wholly owned property, including, among others, the following: • The other owner(s) of the investment might become bankrupt; • The other owner(s) may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • The other owner(s) may be unable to make required payments on loans under which we are jointly and severally liable; • The other owner(s) may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, such as selling the property at a time when to do so would have adverse consequences to us; • Actions by the other owner(s) might subject the property to liabilities in excess of those otherwise contemplated by us; and • It may be difficult for us to sell our interest in the property at the time we deem a sale to be in our best interests. Failure to retain senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Finding suitable replacements for senior management and other key employees would be difficult, as competition for such personnel of similar experience and perspective is intense. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with greater financial resources than ours. There can be no assurance we will continue to be successful in retaining or attracting qualified personnel in the future. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our senior management team. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. During the latter part of 2007 and into 2008, market prices of securities including our common stock have fluctuated. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise or fall, including but not limited to: • Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • Changes in market valuations of companies in the hospitality industry; • Changes in financial estimates, expectations of future financial performance or recommendations by analysts; • Changes in general conditions in the economy and subsequent fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • Issuances of common stock or other securities in the future; • The addition or departure of key personnel, including one or more members of our senior management team; and • Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Due to the shareholdings of our Chairman, together with other members of the Barbieri family, we may be limited in our ability to undertake transactions requiring shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2007, Donald K. Barbieri, our Chairman of the Board, had sole voting and investment power with respect to 5.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Heather Barbieri, his ex-spouse, had sole voting and investment power with respect to 5.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Pursuant to a trust 18 Table of Contents agreement, Donald K. Barbieri and Heather Barbieri share voting and investment power with respect to an additional 3.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Richard L. Barbieri, who is also a director and Donald K. Barbieri’s brother, beneficially owned 1.2% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2007. In addition, we believe that other members of the Barbieri family who are not directors, executive officers or 5% shareholders individually hold our outstanding common stock. As such, to the extent they are willing and able to act in concert, they may have the ability as a group to substantially influence actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including a merger or a sale of all of our assets or a transaction that results in a change of control. The performance of our entertainment division is particularly subject to fluctuations in economic conditions. Our entertainment division, which comprised 7.9% of our total revenues from continuing operations in 2007, engages in event ticketing and the presentation of various entertainment productions. Our entertainment division is vulnerable to risks associated with changes in general regional and economic conditions, the potential for significant competition and a change in consumer trends, among other risks. In addition, we face the risk that entertainment productions will not tour the regions in which we operate or that such productions will not choose us as a presenter or promoter. If we are unable to locate lessees for our office and retail space, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. We own and lease to others over 162,000 square feet of retail space in Kalispell, Montana. We are subject to the risk that leases for this space might not be renewed upon their expiration, the space may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting such space, including the cost of required renovations, might be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Vacancies could result due to the termination of a tenant’s tenancy, the tenant’s financial failure or a breach of the tenant’s obligations. We may be unable to locate tenants for rental spaces vacated in the future or we may be limited to renting space on terms unfavorable to us. Delays or difficulties in attracting tenants and costs incurred in preparing for tenant occupancy could reduce cash flow, decrease the value of a property and jeopardize our ability to pay our expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 