Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should also consider the other information described in this report. Risks Related to the Restatement The restatement of our consolidated financial statements has had a material adverse impact on us, including increased costs, the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Stock Market, the increased possibility of legal or administrative proceedings, and a default under our subordinated note agreement. As a result of the restatement process, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including the following: • We have incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in the year ended December 31, 2005 and continue to incur such costs in the year ended December 31, 2006 in connection with the restatement. Although the restatement is complete, we expect to incur additional costs as indicated below. • We face an increased risk of being subject to legal or administrative proceedings. In December 2005, the Commission issued a formal order of investigation in connection with our accounting review of certain customer transactions. This investigation has diverted and will continue to divert more of our management’s time and attention and continue to cause us to incur substantial costs. Such investigations can also lead to fines or injunctions or orders with respect to future activities, as well as further substantial costs and diversion of management’s time and attention. • On June 23, 2006, a securities litigation lawsuit based on the events concerning the restatement was filed against us and certain of our current and former executive officers. In connection with this litigation and any further litigation that is pursued or other relief sought by persons asserting claims for damages allegedly resulting from or based on this restatement or events related thereto, we will incur defense costs that may include the amount of our deductible and defense costs exceeding our insurance coverage regardless of the outcome. Additionally, we may incur costs if the insurers of our directors and our liability insurers deny coverage for the costs and expenses related to any litigation. Likewise, such events may divert our management’s time and attention away from the operation of the business. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. • We were de-listed from The NASDAQ Stock Market because we were unable to file our periodic reports with the Commission on a timely basis. This failure was attributable to our inability to complete the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for prior periods. As previously disclosed on our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 2005 and January 20, 2006, NASDAQ notified us of its intention to de-list our common stock based on our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and our failure to solicit proxies and hold an annual shareholders’ meeting during 2005. On March 31, 2006, The NASDAQ Listing and Qualifications Panel determined to de-list our securities from The NASDAQ Stock Market effective as of the opening of business on April 4, 2006, and our common stock currently trades on the Pink Sheets. See our risk factor entitled “Our common stock has been de-listed from The NASDAQ Stock Market and trades on the Pink Sheets.” We may be unable to relist on The NASDAQ Stock Market because we may not be able to meet the initial listing requirements. • Because we were unable to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for September 30, 2005, we defaulted on our Notes. On March 21, 2006, we paid off the entire principal amount of outstanding Notes, including all accrued and unpaid interest and related fees, for a total of $65.6 million. As a result, our repayment of the Notes reduced our unrestricted cash, decreased our liquidity and could materially impair our ability to operate our business especially if we are unable to generate positive cash flow from operations. 20 Table of Contents • The restatement may also result in other negative ramifications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers, employees, investors, and security analysts, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We have restated our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2004 and for the four quarters in 2004 and the first two quarters of 2005. As described in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K, management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), conducted an evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2005 and as of the filing date of this Form 10-K due to the material weaknesses discussed below. Because the material weaknesses described below have not been remediated as of the filing date of this Form 10-K, the CEO and CFO continue to conclude that our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective as of the filing date of this Form 10-K. A material weakness in internal control over financial reporting is defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Audit Standard No. 2 as being a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements would not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. We were not able to fully execute the remediation plans that were established to address material weaknesses previously identified in 2004. As a result, these material weaknesses were not fully remediated and remain ongoing as of December 31, 2005 and as of the date of this filing. We have identified the following material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005: • insufficient controls related to the identification, capture and timely communication of financially significant information between certain parts of the organization and the accounting and finance department to enable these departments to account for transactions in a complete and timely manner; • lack of sufficient personnel with technical accounting experience in the accounting and finance department and inadequate review and approval procedures to prepare external financial statements in accordance with GAAP; • failure in identifying the proper recognition of revenue in accordance with GAAP, including revenue recognized in accordance with American Institute of Certified Accountants Statement of Position (SOP) 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition” (SOP 97-2), SOP 81-1, “Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts” (SOP 81-1), Financial Accounting Standards Board, Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00-21, “Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables” (EITF 00-21); • the use of estimates, including monitoring and adjusting balances related to certain accruals and reserves, including allowance for doubtful accounts, legal charges, license fees, restructuring charges, taxes, warranty obligations, fixed assets and bond issue costs; • lack of sufficient analysis and documentation of the application of GAAP; and • ineffective controls over the documentation, authorization and review of manual journal entries and ineffective controls to ensure the accuracy and completeness of certain general ledger account reconciliations conducted in connection with period end financial reporting. 21 Table of Contents For further information about these material weaknesses, please see Item 9A — Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Form 10-K. Because of these material weaknesses, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. Because we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective and our independent registered public accountants issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and to the extent we identify future weaknesses or deficiencies, there could be material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. While we are in the process of implementing the remediation efforts described in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures — Remediation Steps to Address Material Weaknesses, we may continue to experience difficulties or delays in implementing measures to remediate the material weaknesses. Additionally, if the remedial measures are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, our operating results may be harmed, and we may be subject to litigation. Any failure to address the identified material weaknesses or any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls could also adversely affect the results of future management evaluations and auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our strategic alternatives, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, perceptions of us among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. Current material weaknesses or any weaknesses or deficiencies identified in the future could also hurt confidence in our business and the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, and adversely affect our ability to do business with these groups. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the Commission. Our revenue recognition policy on digital video products has been corrected. We now recognize revenue from our digital video products under SOP 97-2, SAB 104 and EITF 00-21. Our new revenue recognition policy under these accounting standards is complex. We rely upon key accounting personnel and consultants to maintain and implement the controls surrounding such policy. If the policy is not applied on a consistent basis or if we lose any of our key accounting personnel or consultants the accuracy of our consolidated financial statements could be materially affected. This could cause future delays in our earnings announcements, regulatory filings with the Commission and potential delays in listing with a securities exchange. Our common stock has been de-listed from The NASDAQ Stock Market and trades on the Pink Sheets. Effective April 4, 2006, our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market and was subsequently quoted by the National Quotation Service Bureau (Pink Sheets). The trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets may materially and adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and reduced price of our common stock could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us or at 22 Table of Contents all. Stocks that trade on the Pink Sheets are no longer eligible for margin loans, and a company trading on the Pink Sheets cannot avail itself of federal preemption of state securities or “blue sky” laws, which adds substantial compliance costs to securities issuances, including pursuant to employee option plans, stock purchase plans and private or public offerings of securities. Our delisting from The NASDAQ Stock Market and quotation on the Pink Sheets may also result in other negative ramifications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers, employees, investors, and security analysts, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. If we are not able to become or remain current in our filings with the Commission, we will face several adverse consequences. If we are unable to become and remain current in our financial filings, we will face several restrictions. We will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the Commission, or make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements; we will not be able to make an offering to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors” under certain “private placement” rules of the Commission under Regulation D; we will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of at least 12 months after the time we become current in our periodic and current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act); we will not be able to deliver the requisite annual report and proxy statement to our stockholders to hold our annual stockholders meeting; our employees cannot be granted stock options, nor will they be able to exercise stock options registered on Form S-8, as Form S-8 is currently not available to us; and our common stock may not be eligible for re-listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market or alternative exchanges. These restrictions may impair our ability to raise funds in the public markets, should we desire to do so, and to attract and retain employees. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may continue to incur losses in the future. It is difficult to predict our future operating results. We began shipping products commercially in June 1997, and we have been shipping products in volume since the quarter ended March 31, 1998. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.1 billion. We believe that we will continue to experience challenges in selling our products at a profit and may continue to operate with net losses for the foreseeable future. As a result of our losses, we have had to use available cash and cash equivalents to supplement the operation of our business. Additionally, we generally have been unable to significantly reduce our short-term expenses in order to compensate for unexpected decreases in anticipated revenues or delays in generating anticipated revenues. For example, we have fixed commitments with some of our suppliers that require us to purchase minimum quantities of their products at a specified price irrespective of whether we can subsequently use such quantities in our products. In addition, we have significant operating lease commitments for facilities and equipment that generally cannot be cancelled in the short-term without substantial penalties, if at all. We depend on capital spending from the cable, satellite and telecommunications industries for our revenues, and any decrease or delay in capital spending in these industries would negatively impact our revenues, financial condition and cash flows. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues have been derived from sales to cable television operators. Future demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by cable television operators, satellite operators, telephone companies and broadcasters for constructing and upgrading their systems. Customers view the purchase of our products as a significant and strategic decision. Digital video, movie and broadcast products are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital. Our customers’ capital spending patterns are dependent on a variety of factors, including: • Cable and satellite operators and telecom providers’ access to financing; • Annual budget cycles, and the typical reduction in upgrade projects during the winter months; • Impact of industry consolidation and financial restructuring; 23 Table of Contents • Federal, local and foreign government regulation of telecommunications and television broadcasting; • Overall demand for communication services and acceptance of new video, voice and data services; • Evolving industry standards and network architecture; • Delays associated with the evaluation of new services, new standards, and system architectures by cable and satellite operators and telecom providers; • An emphasis on generating revenue from existing customers by operators instead of new construction or network upgrades; • Competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; and • General economic conditions. Financial and budgetary pressures on our existing and potential customers in the cable, satellite and telecom industries will adversely impact purchasing decisions and may cause delays in the purchase of our products. Any one of the above factors could impact spending by cable operators on digital video equipment and thus could impact our business and result in excess inventory, decreased sales and revenue or other adverse effects. Due to the lengthy sale cycle involved in the sale of our products, our financial results may vary and should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Our products have a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our operating results. Our customers’ decision to purchase our products is often accompanied by delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and implementation procedures within an organization. Our customers generally conduct significant technical evaluations, including customer trials, of our products as well as competing products prior to making a purchasing decision. Moreover, the purchase of these products typically requires coordination and agreement among a potential customer’s corporate headquarters and regional and local operations. Even if corporate headquarters agrees to purchase our products, local operations may retain a significant amount of autonomy and may not elect to purchase our products. Additionally, a portion of our expenses related to anticipated orders is fixed and is difficult to reduce or change, which may further impact our revenues and operating results for a particular period. We expect that there will be fluctuations in the number and value of orders received. Because of the lengthy sales cycle and the size of customer orders, if orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular period do not occur in that period, our revenues and operating results for that particular period could suffer. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Additionally, because of the lengthy sales cycle combined with a lengthy product development cycle, our customers may elect not to purchase our products or new features or functionality because they have elected to select alternate technologies or vendors. We may be unable to forecast the new products, features or functionality desired by our customers. We may spend considerable research and development dollars without having our products, features or functionality be accepted in the market. Because we are now focused solely on the development of digital video products, our inability to develop products, features and functionality that our customers might purchase would have a significant impact on us, and would adversely affect sales, revenue, margins and the cash available for future development efforts. We may continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results and face unpredictability in our future revenues. Our revenues have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which we cannot control. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of the future. Because these factors are difficult for us to forecast, our business, financial condition and results of operations from one period or a series of periods may be adversely affected and may be below the expectations of analysts and investors, resulting in 24 Table of Contents a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Our business and product mix has also changed in the past several years based on our business restructuring, making historical comparisons more unreliable as indicators of future performance. Factors that affect our revenues include, among others, the following: • The sales cycle and timing of significant customer orders, which are dependent on the capital spending budgets of cable and satellite operators, telecom providers and other customers; • Variations in the size of the orders by our customers and pricing concessions on volume sales; • Competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors; • New product introductions or the introduction of added features or functionality to products by competitors or by us; • Delays in our introduction of new products, in our introduction of added features or functionality to our products, or our commercialization of products that are competitive in the marketplace; • International conflicts, including the continuing conflict in Iraq, and acts of terrorism, and the impact of adverse economic, market and political conditions worldwide; • The ability of our products to be qualified or certified as meeting industry standards and/or customer standards; • Changes in market demand; • Economic and financial conditions specific to the cable, satellite and telecom industries, and general economic conditions; • Timing of revenue recognition; • Changes in domestic and international regulatory environments; • Market acceptance of new and existing products; • The mix of our customer base, sales channels and our products sold; • The level of international sales; and • Delays in our receipt of, or cancellation of, orders forecasted by customers. Our financial results are affected by the gross margin we achieve for the year relative to our gross revenues. A variety of factors influence our gross margin for a particular period, including, among others, the following: • The sales mix of our products, the volume of products manufactured, and the average selling prices (ASPs) of our products; • The costs of manufacturing our products; • Delays in reducing the cost of our products and the effectiveness of our cost reduction measures; • The type of distribution channel through which we sell our products; and • Our ability to manage excess and obsolete inventory. Our expenses for any given quarter are based on expected sales and if sales are below expectations, our operating results may be adversely impacted by our inability to adjust spending to compensate for the shortfall in revenue. We often recognize a substantial portion of our revenues in the last month of the quarter. We establish our expenditure levels for product development and other operating expenses based on projected sales levels, and expenses are relatively fixed, particularly in the short term. For example, a significant percentage of these operating expenses are fixed due to operating leases for our facilities and equipment. Also, we have fixed commitments with 25 Table of Contents some of our suppliers that require us to purchase minimum quantities of their products at a specified price. Because we have in the past been unable to use all of the products that we purchased from our suppliers, we have taken vendor cancellation charges as a result of these fixed commitments, and we may have to take additional charges in the future if we are unable to use all of the products that we purchase from our suppliers. As of December 31, 2005, $12.1 million of purchase obligations were outstanding. The obligations are generally expected to become payable at various times throughout 2006. Our expenses for any given quarter are typically based on expected sales and if sales are below expectations, our operating results may be adversely impacted by our inability to adjust spending to compensate for the shortfall. Moreover, our research and development expenses fluctuate in response to new product development, changing industry requirements and customer demands. Because our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, the loss of or reduced demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers in the cable industry have undergone and continue to undergo significant consolidation in both North America and internationally, as a limited number of cable operators control an increasing number of systems. We expect this consolidation to continue in the foreseeable future. As of June 2006, the top ten US Multiple System Operators (MSOs) (based on total subscribers) collectively served 58.2 million cable subscribers, which is approximately 89% of the total 65.6 million cable subscribers in the US, according to Kagan Research, LLC. The top 10 MSOs are Comcast Corporation; Time Warner Cable; Cox Communications, Inc.; Charter Communications, Inc.; Adelphia Communications Corporation; Cablevision System Corporation; Brighthouse Networks; Mediacom LLC; Insight Communications Company, Inc.; and CableOne. As a result of the consolidation among cable operators, our revenues from digital video products has been and will continue to be highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers. Typically, our sales are made on a purchase order or system contract basis, and none of our customers has entered into a long-term agreement requiring it to purchase our products. Moreover, we do not typically require our customers to purchase a minimum quantity of our products, and our customers can generally cancel or significantly reduce their orders on short notice without significant penalties. Our sales to these customers tend to vary significantly from year to year depending on the customer’s budget for capital expenditures and our new product introductions and improvements. A significant amount of our revenues will continue to be derived from a limited number of large customers. The loss of or reduced demand for products from any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we may not succeed in attracting new customers as many of our potential customers have pre-existing relationships with our current or potential competitors and the continued consolidation of the cable industry may also reduce the number of potential customers. To attract new customers and retain existing customers, we may be faced with price competition, which may adversely affect our gross margins and revenues. A portion of our sales are made to a small number of resellers, who often incorporate our products and applications in systems that are sold to an end-user customer, which is typically a cable operator, satellite provider or broadcast operator. If one or more of these resellers develop their own products or elect to purchase similar products from another vendor, our ability to generate revenue and our results of operations may suffer. We are attempting to diversify our customer base beyond cable and satellite customers, principally into the telecom market, as well as the broadcast market. Major telecom operators have begun to implement plans to rebuild or upgrade their networks to offer bundled video, voice and data services. In order to be successful in this market, we may need to build alliances with integrators that sell telecom equipment to the telecom operators, adapt our products for telecom applications, adopt pricing specific to the telecom industry and the integrators that sell to the telecom operators, and build internal expertise to handle particular contractual and technical demands of the telecom industry. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot give any assurances that we will be able to increase our revenues from the telecom market, or that we can do so profitably, and any failure to generate revenues and profits from telecom customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents The reductions in workforce associated with our restructuring efforts could disrupt the operation of our business, distract our management from focusing on revenue-generating efforts, result in the erosion of employee morale, and impair our ability to respond rapidly to growth opportunities in the future. We have implemented a number of restructuring plans since 2001. The employee reductions and changes in connection with our restructuring activities, as well as any future changes in senior management and key personnel, could result in an erosion of morale, and affect the focus and productivity of our remaining employees, including those directly responsible for revenue generation and the management and administration of our accounting and finance department, which in turn may adversely affect our future revenues or cause other administrative deficiencies. Additionally, employees directly affected by the reductions may seek future employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. Although all employees are required to sign a proprietary information agreement with us at the time of hire, there can be no assurances that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. Additionally, we may face wrongful termination, discrimination, or other claims from employees affected by the reductions related to their employment and termination. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves or our employees against such claims, regardless of the merits of such actions. Furthermore, such matters could divert the attention of our employees, including management, away from our operations, harm productivity, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. We cannot assure you that our restructuring efforts will be successful, and we may need to take additional restructuring efforts, including additional personnel reductions, in the future. We are dependent on key personnel. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of and on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management, accounting and finance, engineering, sales and marketing personnel and employees with significant experience and expertise in video, data networking and radio frequency design. The competition for some of these personnel is intense, particularly for engineers with Motion Picture Experts Group (MPEG), Internet Protocol (IP) and real time processing experience. We may incur additional expenses to attract and retain key personnel. We have also recently experienced turnover in our accounting and finance organization and have augmented internal resources to address staffing deficiencies primarily through the engagement of external contractors. Additionally, we have retained FTI Consulting, Inc. to provide accounting services, which has increased operating expenses, and we may be unable to prepare our financial statements without their assistance. There can be no assurances that the additional expenses we may incur, or our efforts to recruit such individuals, will be successful. Additionally, we do not have key person insurance coverage for the loss of any of our employees. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. Our employees generally are not bound by non-competition agreements. The loss of the services of any key personnel, or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth depends on developments in the digital video industry, on the adoption of new technologies and on several other industry trends. Future demand for our products will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of several emerging services, including digital video, high definition television (HDTV), IP-based TV, ad insertion, and logo overlays. The effective delivery of these services will depend, in part, on a variety of new network architectures and standards, such as: FTTP and DSL networks designed to facilitate the delivery of video services by telecom operators; new video compression standards such as MPEG-4/H.264; the greater use of protocols such as IP; and the introduction of new consumer devices, such as advanced set-top boxes and DVRs. If adoption of these emerging services and/or technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on these technologies on a timely basis, our net sales growth will be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, other technological, industry and regulatory trends will affect the growth of our business. These trends include the following: • Convergence, or the desire of certain network operators to deliver a package of video, voice and data services to consumers, also known as the “triple play;” 27 Table of Contents • The use of digital video applications by businesses, governments and educators; • The entry of telecom providers into the video business to allow them to offer the “triple play” purchase of services; • Efforts by regulators and governments in the United States and abroad to encourage the adoption of broadband and digital technologies; and • The extent and nature of regulatory attitudes towards such issues as competition between operators, access by third parties to networks of other operators, and local franchising requirements for telecom companies to offer video. If, for instance, operators do not pursue the “triple play” or new video products and technology aggressively or in the timeline we expect, our ability to sell our digital video products and grow our revenues will be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology, and we need to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely manner to remain competitive. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life. To compete successfully in the markets in which we operate, we must design, develop, manufacture and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability. Digital video markets are relatively immature, making it difficult to accurately predict the markets’ future growth rates, sizes or technological directions. In view of the evolving nature of these markets, network operators and content aggregators may decide to adopt alternative architectures, industry standards or technologies that are incompatible with our current or future video products and applications. The development and greater market acceptance of new architectures, industry standards or technologies could decrease the demand for our products or render them obsolete, and could negatively impact the pricing and gross margin of our digital video products. Our competitors, many of which have greater resources than we do, may introduce products that are less costly, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture and sell products that incorporate or are compatible with these new architectures, industry standards or technologies, our business and financial results will be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to realize revenue growth depends on our ability to: • Develop, in a timely manner, new products and applications that keep pace with developments in technology; • Develop products that are cost effective; • Meet evolving customer requirements; • Enhance our current product and applications offerings; and • Achieve market acceptance. The pursuit of necessary technological advances and the development of new products require substantial time and expense. We may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new or enhanced products if they are not cost effective, are not brought to the market in a timely manner, are not in accordance with evolving industry standards and architecture, fail to achieve market acceptance, or are ahead of the market. If the technologies we are currently developing or intend to develop do not achieve feasibility or widespread market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, in order to successfully develop and market certain of our current or future digital video products, we may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Failure to enter into development or licensing agreements, when necessary, could limit our ability to develop and market new products and could cause our operating results to suffer. The entry into such development or licensing agreements may not be on terms favorable to us and could negatively impact our gross margins. 28 Table of Contents Average selling prices of our digital video products may decline, which would materially and adversely affect our financial performance. The ASPs for our digital video products may decline due to the introduction of new products, the adoption of new industry standards, the entry into licensing agreements, an increase in the number of competitors, competitive pricing pressures, promotional programs and customers possessing strong negotiating positions which require price reductions as a condition of purchase. The adoption of industry standards and specifications may erode ASPs on our digital video products if the adoption of such standards lead to the commoditization of products similar to ours. The entry into technology development or licensing agreements, as necessitated by industry developments and business needs, could also reduce our ASPs. Decreasing ASPs may also require us to sell our products at much lower gross margins than in the past, and could result in decreased revenues even if the number of units that we sell increases. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future revenue, gross margin and operating results due to ASP erosion in our digital video products. Therefore, we must continue to develop and introduce on a timely basis and a cost-effective manner new products or next-generation products with enhanced functionalities that can be sold at higher gross margins. If we fail to do so, our revenues and gross margins may decline further. We must achieve cost reductions or increase revenues to attain profitability. In order to achieve profitability, we must significantly increase our revenues, continue to reduce the cost of our products, and maintain or reduce our operating expenses. In prior years, we experienced revenue declines which were, in large part, due to declining product ASPs resulting from our transition from a proprietary platform to the Data Over Cable System Interface Specification (DOCSIS) standards platform. Although we have implemented expense reduction and restructuring plans in the past that have focused on cost reductions and operating efficiencies, we continue to operate at a loss. A large portion of our expenses, including rent and operating lease expenditures, is fixed and difficult to reduce or change. Accordingly, if our revenue does not meet our expectations, we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall in revenue which, in turn, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we continue to work to reduce the cost of our products through design and engineering changes, we may not be successful in redesigning our products, and, even if we are successful, our efforts may be delayed or our redesigned products may contain significant errors and product defects. In addition, any redesign may not result in sufficient cost reductions to allow us to reduce significantly the prices of our products or improve our gross margins. Reduction in our product costs may require us to use lower-priced components that are highly integrated in future products and may require us to enter into high volume or long-term purchase or manufacturing agreements. Volume purchase or manufacturing agreements may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and we could incur significant expenses without related revenues if we cannot use the products or services offered by such agreements. We have incurred significant vendor cancellation charges related to volume purchases and manufacturing agreements in the past and may incur such charges in the future. Our repayment of our Notes could adversely affect our financial condition, and we may not be able to raise additional funds to continue operating our business. Our main source of liquidity continues to be our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents on hand. As a result of our history of operating losses, we expect to continue to use our unrestricted cash to fund operating losses in the future. Our unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $101.3 million and $97.7 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On March 21, 2006, we paid off the entire principal amount of the outstanding Notes due August 2007, including all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and related fees, for an aggregate amount of $65.6 million. Our repayment in full of the Notes reduced our unrestricted cash, decreased our liquidity and could materially impair our ability to operate our business, especially if we are unable to generate positive cash flow from operations. If our operating losses are more severe than expected or continue longer than expected, we may find it necessary to seek other sources of financing to support our operations and to provide available funds for working capital. We may need to raise additional funds in order to support more rapid expansion, develop new or enhanced services, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies or respond to 29 Table of Contents unanticipated requirements. We may seek to raise additional funds through private or public sales of securities, strategic relationships, bank debt, and financing under leasing arrangements or otherwise. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution or such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. No assurances can be given that additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue operations, develop our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and liquidity. Substantially all of our future revenue will be derived from the sale of our digital video products, and our operating results, financial conditions and cash flows will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our digital video products. In January 2006 we announced that we will focus solely on our digital video products and applications. Accordingly, we are susceptible to adverse trends affecting this market segment, including technological obsolescence and the entry of new competition. We expect that this market may continue to account for substantially all of our revenue in the near future. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to continue to sell our digital video products and applications, the gross margin of such sales, our ability to maintain and increase our market share by providing other value-added services to the market, and our ability to successfully adapt our technology and services to other related markets. Markets for our existing services and products may not continue to expand and we may not be successful in our efforts to penetrate new markets. We may be unable to provide adequate customer support. Our ability to achieve our planned sales growth and retain current and future customers will depend in part upon the quality of our customer support operations. Our customers generally require significant support and training with respect to our products, particularly in the initial deployment and implementation stages. Spikes in demand of our support services may cause us to be unable to serve our customers adequately. We may not have sufficient personnel to provide the levels of support that our customers may require during initial product deployment or on an ongoing basis especially during peak periods. Our inability to provide sufficient support to our customers could delay or prevent the successful deployment of our products. In addition, our failure to provide adequate support could harm our reputation and relationships with our customers and could prevent us from selling products to existing customers or gaining new customers. Furthermore, we may experience transitional issues relating to customer support in connection with our decision to dispose of or discontinue various investments and product lines. We may incur liability associated with customers’ dissatisfaction with the level of customer support maintained for discontinued product lines. The deployment process for our equipment may be lengthy and may delay the receipt of new orders and cause fluctuations in our revenues. The timing of deployment of our equipment can be subject to a number of other risks, including the availability of skilled engineering and technical personnel, the availability of other equipment such as fiber optic cable, and the need for local zoning and licensing approvals. We believe that changes in our customers’ deployment plans have delayed, and may in the future delay, the receipt of new orders. Since the majority of our sales have been to relatively few customers, a delay in equipment deployment with any one customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales for a particular period. We may have financial exposure to litigation. We and/or our directors and officers are defendants in a number of lawsuits, including securities litigation lawsuits and patent litigation. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings for more information regarding our litigation. As a result, we may have financial exposure to litigation as a defendant and because we are obligated to indemnify our officers and members of our Board of Directors for certain actions taken by our officers and directors on our behalf. 30 Table of Contents In order to limit financial exposure arising from litigation and/or our obligation to indemnify our officers and directors, we have historically purchased directors’ and officers’ insurance (D&O Insurance). There can be no assurance that D&O Insurance will be available to us in the future or, if D&O Insurance is available, that it will not be prohibitively expensive. If there is no insurance coverage for the litigation or, even if there is insurance coverage, if a carrier is subsequently liquidated or placed into liquidation, we will be responsible for the attorney fees and costs resulting from the litigation. The incurrence of significant fees and expenses in connection with the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of existing reseller and system integrator relationships or the failure to establish new relationships or strategic partnerships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Our products have been traditionally sold to large cable operators and satellite operators with recent, limited sales to television broadcasters. A portion of our sales are made to a small number of resellers and system integrators, who often incorporate our products and applications in systems that are sold to an end-user customer, which is typically a cable operator, satellite provider or broadcast operator. The resale relationships provide an opportunity to sell our products to our resellers’ customer bases. We rely upon these resellers for recommendations of our products during the evaluation stage of the purchasing process, as well as for implementation and customer support services. A number of our competitors also have strong relationships with the resellers. Although we intend to establish new strategic relationships with leading resellers worldwide to gain access to new customers, including telecom providers, we may not succeed in establishing these relationships. Even if we do establish and maintain these relationships, our resellers or strategic partners may not succeed in marketing our products to their customers. Some of our competitors have established long-standing relationships with cable, satellite and telecom operators that may limit our and our resellers’ ability to sell our products to those customers. Even if we were to sell our products to those customers, it would likely not be based on long-term commitments, and those customers would be able to terminate their relationships with us at any time without significant penalties. Our resellers or strategic partners may also terminate their relationship with us upon short notice without significant penalties. Based on our sole focus on our digital video products, the reduction of our sales force, and our increasing focus on the telecom market, we are increasingly reliant on resellers and system integrators. In order to successfully market to telecom companies, we believe we will need to build alliances with system integrators that sell telecom equipment to the telecom operators. We may be unsuccessful in maintaining our current reseller and system integrator relationships as well as attracting system integrators that sell to telecom companies. Some of our resellers and system integrators have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, products that compete with our products. The loss of existing reseller and system integrator relationships or the failure to establish new relationships or strategic partnerships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to accurately forecast customer demand for our products, which could have a negative impact on our customer relationships and our revenues. The nature of the broadband industry makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast demand for our products. Our inability to forecast accurately the actual demand for our products may result in too much or too little supply of products or an over/under capacity of manufacturing or testing resources at any given point in time. The existence of any one or more of these situations could have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have incurred significant vendor cancellation charges related to volume purchase and manufacturing agreements in the past and may incur such charges in the future. We had purchase obligations of approximately $12.1 million as of December 31, 2005, primarily to purchase minimum quantities of materials and components used to manufacture our products. We may be obligated to fulfill these purchase obligations even if demand for our products is lower than we anticipate. Forecasting to meet our customers’ demand is particularly difficult for our products. Our ability to meet customer demand will depend significantly on the availability of our single contract manufacturer. In recent years, 31 Table of Contents in response to lower sales and falling ASPs, we significantly reduced our headcount and other expenses. As a result, we may be unable to respond to customer demand that increases more quickly than we expect. If we fail to meet customers’ supply expectations, our sales would be adversely affected and we may lose key customer relationships. We may not be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demand of our customers. From time to time, we receive indications from our customers as to their future plans and requirements to ensure that we will be prepared to meet their demand for our products. If actual orders differ materially from these indications, our ability to manage inventory and expenses may be affected. If we enter into purchase commitments to acquire materials, or expend resources to manufacture products and such products are not purchased by our customers, our business and operating results could suffer. Although we generally do not have long term supply agreements with our customers and have limited backlog of orders for our products, we must maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Maintaining sufficient inventory levels to ensure prompt delivery of our products increases the risk of inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs, which could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We are dependent on a key third-party manufacturer and any failure of our manufacturer could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our products are single sourced from a manufacturer in San Jose, California. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturer could adversely affect our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to customers. If we experience delays or quality control problems or any failure from our current manufacturer, we may be unable to supply products in a timely manner to our customers. While we believe that there are alternative manufacturers available, we believe that the procurement from alternative suppliers could take several months. In addition, these alternative suppliers may not be able to supply us products that are functionally equivalent, or make our products available to us on a timely basis or on similar terms. Resulting delays, quality control problems or reductions in product shipments could materially and adversely affect on our financial performance, damage customer relationships, and expose us to potential damages that may arise from our inability to supply our customers with products. Further, a significant increase in the price of underlying components, such as our semiconductor components, could harm our gross margins or operating results. There may not be manufacturers that are able to meet our future volume or quality requirements at a price that is favorable to us. Any financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties experienced by our single manufacturer could harm our business and financial results. Additionally, we attempt to limit this risk by maintaining safety stocks of these components, subassemblies and modules. As a result of this investment in inventories, we have in the past been and in the future may be subject to risk of excess and obsolete inventories, which could harm our business. In this regard, our gross margins and operating results could be adversely affected by excess and obsolete inventory. Our products are assembled and tested by our single manufacturer using testing equipment that we provide. As a result of our dependence on the contract manufacturer for the assembly and testing of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. Any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacturing, assembling or testing our products. In addition, as manufacturing volume increases, we will need to procure and assemble additional testing equipment and provide it to our contract manufacturer. The production and assembly of testing equipment typically require significant lead times. We could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are unable to provide this testing equipment to our contract manufacturers in a timely manner. We are dependent upon international sales and there are many risks associated with international operations, any of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon international sales, even though we expect sales to customers outside of the United States to represent a significantly smaller percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future compared to our historical 32 Table of Contents revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 42%, 47% and 45%, respectively, of our net revenues were from customers outside of the United States. We may be unable to maintain or increase international sales of our products. International sales are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • Changes in foreign government regulations and communications standards; • Import and export license requirements, tariffs and taxes, trade barriers and trade disputes; • The uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries relating to the protection of intellectual property; • Difficulty in complying with environmental laws; • Difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles for international customers than those for customers in North America; • Currency and exchange rate fluctuations; • The burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; • Difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Specific social, political, labor and economic conditions, and political and economic changes in international markets; and • Multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures, potentially adverse tax consequences. One or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future operations and consequently, on our business, financial conditions and operating results. While we generally invoice our foreign sales in U.S. dollars, we invoice some of our sales in Europe in Euros and local currency in other countries. Since we have also elected to take payment from our customers in local currencies and may elect to take payment in other foreign currencies in the future, we are exposed to losses as the result of foreign currency fluctuations. We currently do not engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. We may in the future choose to limit our exposure by the purchase of forward foreign exchange contracts or through similar hedging strategies. No currency hedging strategy can fully protect against exchange-related losses. In addition, if the relative value of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the currency of our foreign customers should increase, the resulting effective price increase of our products to our foreign customers could result in decreased sales. If our customers are affected by currency devaluations or general economic downturns, their ability to purchase our products could be reduced significantly. We are subject to regulation by U.S. and foreign governments and qualification requirements by non-governmental agencies. If we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory qualifications for our existing and future products, our financial results may be adversely affected. The cable, satellite and telecom industries are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in foreign countries, which may affect the sale of our products and the growth of our business domestically and internationally. The growth of our business and our financial performance depend in part on regulations in these industries. Our products are also subject to qualification, clearance, and approval in certain countries, and we cannot make any assurances that we will be able to maintain these qualifications, clearances or approvals in all the countries in which we operate. If we do not comply with the applicable regulatory requirements in each of the jurisdictions where our products are sold, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions which could require us to, among other things, cease selling our products. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other laws which prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We make sales in countries known to experience corruption. Our sales activities in such countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors which could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. We have attempted to implement 33 Table of Contents safeguards to prevent losses from such practices and to discourage such practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and distributors. However, our safeguards may prove to be less than effective and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, foreign countries may decide to prohibit, terminate or delay the construction of new infrastructure or the adoption of new technology for a variety of reasons. These reasons include environmental issues, economic downturns, availability of favorable pricing for other communications services and the availability and cost of related equipment. Regulations dealing with access by competitors to the networks of incumbent operators could slow or stop additional construction or expansion of these operators. Increased regulation of our customers’ pricing or service offerings could limit their investments and consequently the sale of our products. Changes in regulations could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and many of our competitors are larger and more established. The markets for digital video products and applications are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological changes. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services they offer. Our current competitors include Scopus Video Networks Ltd.; RGB Networks, Inc.; BigBand Networks; and Cisco Systems, Inc. through its acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. Competitors who could enter into the digital video applications and products market include larger and more established players such as Motorola, Inc. Companies that have historically not had a large presence in digital video applications and products market have recently begun to expand their market share through mergers and acquisitions. Further, our competitors may bundle their products or incorporate functionality into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products or which may require us to lower our selling prices resulting in lower gross margins. Consolidation in the industry also may result in larger competitors that may have significant combined resources with which to compete against us. We also face competition from early stage companies with access to significant financial backing that seek to improve existing technologies or develop new technologies. Increased competition could result in reductions in price and revenues, lower profit margins, loss of customers and loss of market share. Any one of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The principal competitive factors in our market include the following: • Product performance, features and reliability; • Price; • Size and stability of operations; • Breadth of product line; • Sales and distribution capabilities; • Technical support and service; • Relationships with network operators and content aggregators; and • Compliance with industry standards. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger and have significant advantages over us, including, without limitation: • Larger and more established selling and marketing capabilities; • Greater economies of scale; • Significantly greater financial, technical, engineering, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources; • Greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers; and • Well-established relationships with our existing and potential customers. 34 Table of Contents Our competitors and potential competitors may be in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers in these markets or to reduce selling prices for competitive reasons. They often have broader product lines and market focus and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors have been in operation longer than we have and therefore have more long-standing and established relationships with domestic and foreign customers. If any of our competitors’ products or technologies were to become the industry standard, our business could be seriously harmed. If our competitors are successful in bringing these products to market earlier, or if these products are more technologically capable than ours, then our sales could be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain or expand our revenues if competition increases and we are unable to respond effectively. Given these competitive and other market factors, we continually look for opportunities to compete effectively and create value for our stockholders. We may, at any time and from time to time, be in the process of identifying or evaluating product development initiatives, partnerships, strategic alliances or transactions and other alternatives in order to maintain market position and maximize shareholder value. Market and other competitive factors may cause us to change our strategic direction, and we may not realize the benefits of any such initiatives, partnerships, alliances or transactions. We cannot assure you that any such initiatives, partnerships, alliances or transactions that we identify and pursue would actually result in our competing effectively, maintaining market position or increasing stockholder value. Our failure to realize any expected benefits from such initiatives, partnerships, alliances or transactions could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. Our business is subject to the risks of warranty returns, product liability and product defects. Products like ours are very complex and can frequently contain undetected errors or failures, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing, errors may occur. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions or upgrades of products, and adversely affect our reputation, our customers’ willingness to buy products from us, and market acceptance and perception of our products. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions or upgrades of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning the products, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, they may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The sale and support of our products also entails the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. Even though we seek to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products, there are risks. There are no assurances that any patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights owned by us will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged, that such intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us or that any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. There are no assurances that others will not develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology, or design around the patents that we own. In addition, effective patent, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. 35 Table of Contents Our pending patent applications may not be granted. Even if they are granted, the claims covered by any patent may be reduced from those included in our applications. Any patent might be subject to challenge in court and, whether or not challenged, might not be broad enough to prevent third parties from developing equivalent technologies or products without a license from us. We believe that the future success of our business will depend on our ability to translate the technological expertise and innovation of our employees into new and enhanced products. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and we enter into non-disclosure agreements with many of our suppliers, distributors and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements, as well as statutory protections, may not prove sufficient or effective to prevent misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or other proprietary information or deter independent third-party development of similar technologies. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may, in the future, take legal action to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial position and liquidity. We pursue the registration of our trademarks in the United States and have applications pending to register several of our trademarks throughout the world. However, the laws of certain foreign countries might not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Effective trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent protection may not be available in every country in which our products may be manufactured, marketed or sold. Third party claims of infringement or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm our operating results and disrupt our business. The industry in which we operate is characterized by vigorous protection of intellectual property rights, which on occasion have resulted in significant and often protracted litigation. As is typical in our industry, we have been and may from time to time be notified of claims asserting that we are infringing intellectual property rights owned by third parties. We also have in the past agreed to, and may from time to time in the future agree to, indemnify customers of our technology or products for claims against such customers by a third party based on claims that our technology or products infringe patents of that third party. Currently, in the cable industry, there is industry-wide patent litigation involving the DOCSIS standard and certain video technologies. Our customers have been sued for using certain DOCSIS complaint products and video products, including our products. Our customers have requested indemnity pursuant to the terms and conditions of our sales to them, and we are contributing to the legal fees and costs of these litigations. Additionally, we may have further liability under indemnity obligations if there is a settlement or judgment. Please see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings for additional information. We further believe that companies may be increasingly subject to infringement claims as distressed companies and individuals attempt to generate cash by enforcing their patent portfolio against a wide range of products. These types of claims, meritorious or not, may result in costly and time-consuming litigation; divert management’s attention and other resources; require us to enter into royalty arrangements; subject us to significant damages or injunctions restricting the sale of our products; require us to indemnify our customers for the use of the allegedly infringing products; require us to refund payment of allegedly infringing products to our customers or to forgo future payments; require us to redesign certain of our products; invalidate our proprietary rights; or damage our reputation. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Our failure to obtain a license for key intellectual property rights from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and prevent us from manufacturing and selling products utilizing the technology. Alternatively, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology with no assurances that we would be successful in such endeavors. The occurrence of any of the above events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales are on an open credit basis. Payment terms in the United States are typically 30 to 60 days, and because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced a request for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements, which we have not provided to date and do not expect to provide in the future. We expect demand for enhanced open credit terms, for example, longer payment terms, customer financing and leasing arrangements, to continue and believe that such arrangements are a competitive factor in obtaining business. Our decision not to provide these types of financing arrangements may adversely affect our ability to sell products, and therefore, our revenue, operations and business. Because of current conditions in the global economy, our exposure to credit risks relating to sales on an open credit basis has increased. Although we monitor and attempt to mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective in reducing credit risk. Additionally, there have been significant insolvencies and bankruptcies among our customers, which have caused and may continue to cause us to incur economic and financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses would not be incurred and that such losses would not be material. Although these losses have generally not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We have and we may seek to expand our business through acquisitions which could disrupt our business operations and harm our operating results. In order to expand our business, we may make strategic acquisitions of other companies or certain assets. We plan to continue to evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time, and may make an acquisition at some future point. However, the current volatility in the stock market and the current price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to make such acquisitions. Any acquisition that we make involves substantial risks, including the following: • Difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired company; • Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; • Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; • Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and • The potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. Acquisitions may also cause us to: • Issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • Assume liabilities; • Record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; • Incur large and immediate write-offs; or • Become subject to litigation. For example, we made ten acquisitions during the period between 1999 and 2000. Due to various economic conditions, none of the products from our acquired businesses, other than the digital video products, have achieved the level of market acceptance that was forecasted at the time of their acquisitions. Additionally, certain product 37 Table of Contents groups have not achieved the level of technological development needed to be marketable or to expand the market. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could materially harm our business and operating results. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that all pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. Our products are subject to safety approvals and certifications. In the United States, our products are required to meet certain safety requirements. For example, we are required to have our video products certified by Underwriters Laboratory in order to meet federal requirements. Outside the United States, our products are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which the products are manufactured or sold. These requirements are likely to vary widely. We may be unable to obtain on a timely basis, or at all, the regulatory approvals that may be required for the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations may be costly which could impact our future earnings. We may be subject to environmental and other regulations due to our production and marketing of products in certain states and countries. In addition, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation, which enables customers to return a product at the end of its useful life and charges us with financial and other responsibility for environmentally safe collection, recycling, treatment and disposal. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronics that will apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (EU RoHS)). The European Union has also finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which makes producers of electrical goods financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for enacting and implementing this directive by individual European Union governments was August 13, 2004 (WEEE Legislation), although extensions were granted in some countries. Producers became financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Japan, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to the EU RoHS or WEEE Legislation. Other environmental regulations may require us to reengineer our products to utilize components which are more environmentally compatible. Such reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us. Although we currently do not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of our operations and the effect of such laws, there is no assurance that such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on us. Various export licensing requirements could materially and adversely affect our business or require us to significantly modify our current business practices. Various government export regulations may apply to the encryption or other features of our products. We may have to make certain filings with the government in order to obtain permission to export certain of our products. In the past, we may have inadvertently failed to file certain export applications and notices, and we may have to make certain filings and request permission to continue exportation of any affected products without interruption while these applications are pending. If we do have to make such filings, there are no assurances that we will obtain permission to continue exporting the affected products or that we will obtain any required export approvals now or in the future. If we do not receive the required export approvals, we may be unable to ship those products to certain customers located outside of the United States. In addition, we may be subject to fines or other penalties due to the failure to file certain export applications and notices. 38 Table of Contents Compliance with changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted, and will continue to result, in the incurrence of additional expenses. New and changing laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Commission regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market Rules, impose stricter corporate governance requirements, greater disclosure obligations, and greater focus on disclosure and internal controls. These new laws and regulations have had the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our Company’s corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and attention of our management from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, and increasing the risk of personal liability for our board members and executive officers involved in our Company’s corporate governance process. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations have resulted, and will continue to result, in increased general and administrative expenses, and increased professional and independent auditor fees. In addition, it has become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. In order to meet the new corporate governance and financial disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and procedures, including disclosure and internal controls, and related corporate governance policies and procedures to address compliance issues and correct any deficiencies that we may discover. Our efforts to correct the deficiencies in our disclosure and internal controls have required, and will continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, we anticipate the costs associated with the continued testing and remediation of our internal controls will be significant and material in the year ended December 31, 2006 and may continue to be material in future years as these controls are maintained and continually evaluated and tested. Furthermore, changes in our operations and the growth of our business may require us to modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls and related corporate governance policies. In addition, the new and changed laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws and regulations differ from the conduct intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities or varying interpretations of the law, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Recent and proposed regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect earnings, our ability to raise capital and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate management to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has announced changes to GAAP that requires us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan rights for all future periods beginning on January 1, 2006. In the event that the assumptions used to compute the fair value of our stock-based awards are later determined to be inaccurate or if we change our assumptions significantly in future periods, our stock-based compensation expense and results of operations could be materially affected which could impede any capital raising efforts. Additionally, to the extent that new accounting standards make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. Investors may be unable to resell our common stock at or above their purchase price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. 39 Table of Contents Our stock price could be subject to extreme fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: • Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • Announcements of technological innovations; • New products or services offered by us or our competitors; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • Conditions or trends in the broadband services and technologies industry; • Changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of technology, Internet, online service or broadband service industries; • Announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, by us or our current or potential competitors; • Adoption of industry standards and the inclusion or compatibility of our technology with such standards; • Adverse or unfavorable publicity regarding us or our products; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • Sales of common stock; and • Other events or factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, the stock markets in general, including the Pink Sheets and The NASDAQ Stock Market, and the stock price of broadband services and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume volatility. This volatility and decline have affected many companies irrespective of or disproportionately to the operating performance of these companies. Additionally, industry factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, which, together with provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of our stock. We adopted a stockholder rights plan pursuant to which we distributed one right for each outstanding share of common stock held by our stockholders of record as of February 20, 2001. If our Board of Directors believes that a particular acquisition is undesirable, the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting a take-over of us, even if such a change in control is beneficial to our stockholders. As a result, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with our Board of Directors. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Any provision of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, stockholder rights plan or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and financial performance. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. We have implemented various measures to 40 Table of Contents manage our risks related to system and network disruptions, but a system failure or security breach could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. We, our sole manufacturer and our customers are vulnerable to earthquakes, disruptions to power supply, labor issues and other unexpected events. Our corporate headquarters, the majority of our research and development activities and our sole source manufacturer are located in California, an area known for seismic activity. An earthquake, or other significant natural disaster, could result in an interruption in our business or the operations of our manufacturer. Some of the other locations in which we and our customers conduct business are prone to natural disasters. If there is a natural disaster in any of the locations where our customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses or substantial business interruptions which may impair their ability to continue to purchase their products from us. Our California operations may also be subject to disruptions in power supply, such as those that occurred in 2001. In addition, the cost of electricity and natural gas has risen significantly. Power outages could disrupt our business operations and those of our suppliers, and could cause us to fail to meet the commitments to our customers. Our business may also be impacted by labor issues related to our operations and/or those of our manufacturer, network operators and content aggregators, or customers. Such an interruption could harm our current and prospective business relationships and adversely impact our operating results. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate for any losses that we may sustain as a result of any natural disasters or other unexpected events. Disruptions in power supply, labor issues and other unexpected events impacting our customers may affect their purchasing decisions and thus adversely impact our financial performance. SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. All statements included or incorporated by reference in this report, other than statements that are purely historical in nature, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are generally written in the future tense and/or are preceded by words such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, future, intend, or certain or the negative of these terms or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements regarding: • Our belief that our current cash balances will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months; • Our belief that we are well positioned to capitalize on the emerging digital video market because of the success our digital video products have had with the major U.S. cable operators and satellite providers, as well as our current success in digital ad insertion; • Our belief that by focusing our business on higher margin digital video products, our margins may increase; • Our belief that we are well positioned to capitalize on the growing demand for network operators to provide advanced video services to their subscribers; • Our belief that the ongoing migration of network operators and content aggregators to all-digital networks represents a significant opportunity for companies similar to ours with products and technologies that enable our customers to maximize their bandwidth, to utilize important new transport methods and to deploy new services; • Our belief that networks operators and content aggregators will increasingly rely on overlay to maintain or even increase their advertising revenues and that our digital video processing systems will enable them to do this more cost-effectively; • Our belief that network operators will continue their investments in equipment to provide advanced services in a cost-effective manner to increase average revenues per unit from their subscribers; 41 Table of Contents • Our belief that there will be increasing competition to our digital video products, which may increase price competition and lead to decreased revenue and margins; • Our expectation that research and development expenses will decrease in 2006; and • Our expectation that general and administrative expenses will increase in 2006 due in part to the restatement process. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Item 1A of this Report. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are based on information that is currently available to us and expectations and assumptions that we deemed reasonable at the time the statements were made. We do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this report or in any of our other communications, except as required by law. All such forward-looking statements should be read as of the time the statements were made and with the recognition that these forward-looking statements may not be complete or accurate at a later date. The business risks discussed in Item 1A of this Report on Form 10-K, among other things, should be considered in evaluating our prospects and future financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 