ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Because our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate, the market price for our stock may be volatile. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility of the price of our common stock. These quarterly and annual fluctuations may result from a number of factors, including: · the size of new contracts and when we are able to recognize the related revenue; · our rate of progress under our contracts; · foreign exchange fluctuations; · budgeting cycles of our customers; · changes in the terms and rates related to the renewal of support agreements; · the mix of products and services sold; · the timing of third-party contractors’ delivery of software and hardware; · level and timing of expenses for product development and sales, general and administrative expenses; · changes in our strategy; · general economic conditions. Personnel costs are a significant component of our budgeted expense levels and, therefore, our expenses are, to a degree, variable based upon our expectations regarding future revenue. As discussed above, our revenue is difficult to forecast and our sales cycle and the size and timing of significant contracts vary substantially among customers. Accordingly, we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Any significant shortfall from anticipated levels of demand for our products and services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Based on these factors, we believe our future quarterly and annual operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful nor do they indicate what our future performance will be. Furthermore, we believe that in future reporting periods if our operating results fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, it is possible that the market price of our common stock could go down. Our results of operations could be negatively impacted if we are unable to manage our liquidity. Our cash forecast indicates that we will have sufficient liquidity to cover anticipated operating costs as well as debt service payments for at least the next twelve months, but this could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, or an unexpected adverse event, or combination of events occurs. Therefore, if the timing of cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may require access to additional funds to support our business objectives through a credit facility or possibly the issuance of additional equity. Additional financing may not be available at all or, if available, may not be obtainable on terms that are favorable to us and not dilutive. 7 Table of Contents Our revolving lines of credit call for the acceleration of payments if certain covenants are breached or cash balance thresholds are achieved. Our revolving credit facility contains certain affirmative and negative covenants that, if breached, could result in any outstanding amounts becoming immediately due and payable. The covenants include our agreement to do the following: · maintain a specified ratio of debt to EBITDA, minimum EBITDA for the trailing twelve months, minimum liquidity, and ratio of fixed charges to EBITDA; · comply with applicable laws and licensing requirements; · file and pay all applicable taxes as they become due; and · operate in the ordinary course of business. The covenants also include our agreement not to do any of the following (except as specifically authorized): · liquidate, dissolve or wind-up operations; · cause or permit a change in control; · pay any dividends or make prepayments on any indebtedness; · acquire, merge or consolidate with any other businesses or entities or make investments in third parties; · sell or transfer a substantial portion of our assets; · incur additional indebtedness or permit any liens on our assets; · make loans or enter into letters for credit or guarantees; · enter into affiliate transactions; · make negative pledges; · change our methods of accounting and record keeping away from generally accepted accounting principles; · change the nature of our business materially; · make capital expenditures beyond established thresholds; or · take certain other operational actions. The covenants may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business. Failure to comply with the covenants, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of the debt. If we are required to pay the debt on an accelerated basis, it would have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition and could cause us to incur additional indebtedness. If we are unable to properly supervise our software development subsidiary in India, or if political or other uncertainties interfere, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business could be materially harmed. In February 2004, we formed Evolving Systems India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Evolving Systems, Inc. In the past we experienced a high level of turnover with our Indian development staff as a result of strong competition for technology-based personnel in India, and we may experience high turnover again in the future. In addition, salary levels in India are steadily increasing, reducing the competitive advantages associated with offshore labor. If we are unable to effectively manage the Evolving Systems India development staff and/or we continue to experience high levels of staff turnover, we may fail to provide quality software in a timely fashion, which could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our customer contracts. Furthermore, political changes and uncertainties in India could negatively impact the business climate there. As a result, we may be unable to satisfactorily perform our customer contracts and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. We operate a global business that exposes us to additional currency, economic, regulatory and tax risks. A significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. Our international operations are subject to the risk factors inherent in the conduct of international business, including: · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · compliance with U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices acts and local anti-bribery laws and regulations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · tariffs and other barriers; · political and economic instability; · limited intellectual property protection; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and · potentially adverse tax consequences in connection with repatriating funds. The U.S. Dollar has recently strengthened against foreign currencies and approximately half of our revenue is transacted in non-Dollar denominated currencies (e.g. British Pound Sterling and Euro). As a result, when the dollar strengthens, the Company’s revenue, when converted to U.S. dollars, is reduced. At the same time, with more than 50% of the Company’s operating expenses originating overseas, the strengthening dollar conversely lowers expenses outside of the U.S. Although this has provided some defense against currency fluctuations for our bottom line results, we may not be able to maintain this ratio of revenue to expense in the future. In addition, we may not be able to sustain or increase our international revenue or repatriate cash without incurring substantial risks 8 Table of Contents involving floating currency exchange rates and income tax expenses. Any of the foregoing factors may have a material adverse impact on our international operations and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes or challenges to the regulations of the communication industry could hurt the market for our products and services. The market for our traditional North American OSS products was created and has primarily been driven by the adoption of regulations under the Telecom Act requiring North American carriers to implement number portability as a condition to being permitted to provide long distance services. Therefore, any changes to these regulations, or the adoption of new regulations by federal or state regulatory authorities under the Telecom Act, or any legal challenges to the Telecom Act, could hurt the market for our products and services. In addition, customers may require, or we may find it necessary or advisable, to modify our products or services to address actual or anticipated changes in regulations affecting our customers. This could also materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions. Any compliance failures or changes in such regulations could, likewise, materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Consolidation in the communications industry may impact our financial performance. The communications industry has experienced and continues to experience significant consolidation, both in the United States and internationally. These consolidations have caused us to lose customers and may result in fewer potential customers requiring OSS solutions in the future. In addition, combining companies may re-evaluate their OSS solutions and their capital expenditures and may choose a competitive OSS solution used by one of the combining companies. As our customers become larger, they generally have stronger purchasing power, which can result in reduced prices for our products, lower margins on our products and longer sales cycles. Because of the uncertainty resulting from these consolidations and the variations in our quarterly operating results, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast our quarterly and annual revenue and we have discontinued providing revenue guidance. All of these factors can have a negative impact on our financial performance, particularly in any fiscal quarter. This negative impact, in turn, could result in noncompliance with certain financial covenants governing our revolving credit facility. If we were unsuccessful in amending the agreements or obtaining a waiver from our senior lender in future reporting periods, these violations could result in such credit facility becoming immediately due and payable. We may not be successful in amending the agreements or obtaining a waiver of any covenant violation. We depend on a limited number of significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. In the past, and currently, we earn a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of customers in the communications industry. This has been mitigated somewhat by the expansion of our customer base in recent years, but, as noted above, consolidation in the industry continues. The loss of any significant customer, delays in delivery or acceptance of any of our products by a customer, delays in the performance of services for a customer, or delays in collection of customer receivables could harm our business and operating results. Our products are complex and have a lengthy implementation process; unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs and delayed payments. Implementing our solutions can be a relatively complex and lengthy process since we typically customize these solutions for each customer’s unique environment. Often our customers may also require rapid deployment of our software solutions, resulting in pressure on us to meet demanding delivery and implementation schedules. Delays in implementation may result in customer dissatisfaction and/or damage our reputation which could materially harm our business. The majority of our existing contracts provide for acceptance testing by the customer, which can be a lengthy process. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in the customer acceptance process could result in higher costs, delayed payments, and deferral of revenue recognition. In addition, if our software contains defects or we otherwise fail to satisfy acceptance criteria within prescribed times, the customer may be entitled to cancel its contract and receive a refund of all or a portion of amounts paid or other amounts as damages, which could exceed related contract revenue and which could result in a future charge to earnings. Any failure or delay in achieving final acceptance of our software and services could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Sales of our products typically require significant review and internal approval processes by our customers over an extended period of time. Interruptions in such process due to economic downturns, consolidations or otherwise could result in the loss of our sale or deferral of revenue into later periods and adversely affect our financial performance. Large communications solutions used for enterprise-wide, mission-critical purposes, involve significant capital expenditures and lengthy implementation plans. Prospective customers typically commit significant resources to the technical evaluation of our products and services and require us to spend substantial time, effort and money providing education regarding our solutions. This evaluation process often results in an extensive and lengthy sales cycle, typically ranging between three and twelve months, making it difficult for us to forecast the timing and magnitude of our contracts. For example, customers’ budgetary constraints and internal 9 Table of Contents acceptance reviews may cause potential customers to delay or forego a purchase. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Mergers and acquisitions of large communications companies, as well as the formation of new alliances, have resulted in a constantly changing marketplace for our products and services. Purchasing delays and pricing pressures associated with these changes are common. In addition, many of the companies in the communications industry have kept capital expenditures at historically low levels in response to changes in the communications marketplace; some companies have declared bankruptcy, cancelled contracts, delayed payments to their suppliers or delayed additional purchases. The delay or failure to complete one or more large contracts, or the loss of a significant customer, could materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Many of our products and services are sold on a fixed-price basis. If we incur budget overruns, our margins and results of operations may be materially harmed. Currently, a large portion of our revenue is from contracts that are on a fixed-price basis. We anticipate that customers will continue to request we provide software and integration services as a total solution on a fixed-price basis. These contracts specify certain obligations and deliverables we must meet regardless of the actual costs we incur. Projects done on a fixed-price basis are subject to budget overruns. On occasion, we have experienced budget overruns, resulting in lower than anticipated margins. We may incur similar budget overruns in the future, including overruns that result in losses on these contracts. If we incur budget overruns, our margins may be harmed, thereby affecting our overall profitability. Percentage-of-completion accounting used for most of our projects can result in overstated or understated profits or losses. The revenue for most of our contracts is accounted for on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method of accounting requires us to calculate revenue and profits to be recognized in each reporting period for each project based on our predictions of future outcomes, including our estimates of the total cost to complete the project, project schedule and completion date, the percentage of the project that is completed and the amounts of any probable unapproved change orders. Our failure to accurately estimate these often subjective factors could result in reduced profits or losses for certain contracts. The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological change. If we fail to develop or introduce new, reliable and competitive products in a timely fashion, our business may suffer. The market for our products and services is subject to rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changes in carrier requirements and preferences and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products that incorporate new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards can make existing products obsolete and unmarketable. In addition, “internationalizing” products that we have developed for our U.S. customer carriers is a complex process. To compete successfully, we must continue to design, develop and sell enhancements to existing products and new products that provide higher levels of performance and reliability in a timely manner, take advantage of technological advancements and changes in industry standards and respond to new customer requirements. As a result of the complexities inherent in software development, major new product enhancements and new products can require long development and testing periods before they are commercially released and delays in planned delivery dates may occur. We may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities or achieve market acceptance of new products brought to market. In addition, products developed by others may cause our products to become obsolete or noncompetitive. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or if our products do not perform satisfactorily, or if we have delays in product development, we may lose customers and our sales may deteriorate. The market for our number portability and service activation products is mature and we may not be able to successfully develop new products to remain competitive. The market for our number portability products and our service activation product is mature and we may not be able to successfully identify new product opportunities. If we are unable to identify new product opportunities sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. The market for our new products is uncertain and we may not be able to generate sufficient demand for those products to grow our business. The market for our new products, specifically International NumeriTrack and DSA, is uncertain and we are still in the early stages of developing customer demand for these products. Our current strategy is heavily reliant on achieving increased sales of these products and if we are unable to achieve market acceptance of these products our sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. The communications industry is highly competitive and if our products do not satisfy customer demand for performance or price, our customers could purchase products and services from our competitors. Our primary markets are intensely competitive and we face continuous demand for improved product performance, new product features and reduced prices, as well as intense pressure to accelerate the release of new products and product enhancements. 10 Table of Contents Our existing and potential competitors include many large domestic and international companies, including some competitors that have substantially greater financial, manufacturing, technological, marketing, distribution and other resources, larger installed customer bases and longer-standing relationships with customers than we do. Our principal competitors in the numbering solutions market include Telcordia Technologies, Inc., Syniverse Technologies and NeuStar, Inc. Our principal competitors in activation are Oracle (as a result of its acquisition of Metasolv), Comptel, Intec and Synchronoss Technologies. In mediation, we compete with many different companies with no single dominant competitor. Customers also may offer competitive products or services in the future since customers who have purchased solutions from us are not precluded from competing with us. Many telecommunications companies have large internal development organizations, which develop software solutions and provide services similar to the products and services we provide. We also expect competition may increase in the future from application service providers, existing competitors and from other companies that may enter our existing or future markets with solutions which may be less costly, provide higher performance or additional features or be introduced earlier than our solutions. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on numerous factors, including the quality and price competitiveness of our products and services compared to those of our competitors, the emergence of new industry standards and technical innovations and our ability to respond to those changes. Some of these factors are within our control, and others are not. A variety of potential actions by our competitors, including a reduction of product prices or increased promotion, announcement or accelerated introduction of new or enhanced products, or cooperative relationships among competitors and their strategic partners, could negatively impact the sales of our products and we may have to reduce the prices we charge for our products. Revenue and operating margins may consequently decline. We may not be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or to properly identify and address the demands of new markets. This is particularly true in new markets where standards are not yet established. Our failure to adapt to emerging market demands, respond to regulatory and technological changes or compete successfully with existing and new competitors would materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our ability to manage future expansion, if any, effectively will require us to attract, train, motivate and manage new employees successfully, to integrate new management and employees into our overall operations and to continue to improve our operations, financial and management systems. We may not be able to retain personnel or to hire additional personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Because of the complexity of our software solutions, a significant time lag exists between the hiring date of technical and sales personnel and the time when they become fully productive. We have at times experienced high employee turnover and difficulty in recruiting and retaining technical personnel. Our failure to retain personnel or to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis could adversely affect our business by impacting our ability to develop new products, to complete our projects and secure new contracts. Our products are complex and may have errors that are not detected until deployment, and litigation related to warranty and product liability claims could be expensive and could negatively affect our reputation and profitability. Our agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability for damages arising out of the use of or defects in our products. These limitations, however, tend to vary from customer to customer and it is possible that these limitations of liability provisions may not be effective. We currently have errors and omissions insurance, which, subject to customary exclusions, covers claims resulting from failure of our software products or services to perform the function or to serve the purpose intended. To the extent that any successful product liability claim is not covered by this insurance, we may be required to pay for a claim. This could be expensive, particularly since our software products may be used in critical business applications. Defending such a suit, regardless of its merits, could be expensive and require the time and attention of key management personnel, either of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business reputation could be harmed by product liability claims, regardless of their merit or the eventual outcome of these claims. Our measures to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate and if we fail to protect those rights, our business would be harmed. Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have patents pending in U.S. and other countries on elements of our DSA product and we have U.S. and Canadian patents on elements of our LNP products, NumberManager® and OrderPath®, and U.S. patents on elements of some of our other products. In addition, we have registered or filed for registration of certain of our trademarks. Our patent portfolio is relatively small and given the cost of obtaining patent protections, we may choose not to patent certain inventions that turn out to be important. There is also the possibility that a third party may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or may develop similar technology independently through reverse engineering or other means. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the U.S. or abroad may not be adequate or others may independently develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around any of our patents. If our intellectual property protection proves inadequate, we may lose our competitive advantage and our future financial results may suffer. 11 Table of Contents In the event that we are infringing upon the proprietary rights of others or violating licenses, we may become subject to infringement claims that may prevent us from selling certain products and we may incur significant expenses in resolving these claims. It is also possible that our business activities may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties may assert infringement claims against us. Those claims may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue or their own, and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we become liable to any third party for infringing its intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain licenses, or to cease selling the applications that contain the infringing intellectual property. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and any outcome unfavorable to us could materially harm our business. Furthermore, we could incur substantial costs in defending against any intellectual property litigation, and these costs could increase significantly if any dispute were to go to trial. Our defense of any litigation, regardless of the merits of the complaint, likely would be time-consuming, costly, and a distraction to our management personnel. Adverse publicity related to any intellectual property litigation also could harm the sale of our products and damage our competitive position. Certain software developed or used by Evolving Systems, as well as certain software acquired in our acquisitions of CMS, TSE or Evolving Systems U.K., may include or so called “open source” software that is made available under an open source software license. · Such open source software may be made available under licenses, certain of which may impose obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works based on the open source software. Certain licenses impose obligations that could require us to make source code for a derivative work available to the public or license the derivative work under a particular type of open source software license, rather than the license terms we customarily use to protect our software. · There is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the terms addressing the extent to which software incorporating open source software may be considered a derivative work subject to these licenses. We believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable open source licenses. However, if the owner of any open source software were to successfully establish that we had not complied with the terms of an open source license for a particular product that includes such open source software, we may be forced to release the source code for that derivative work to the public or cease distribution of that work. Disruptions from terrorist activities or military actions may have an adverse effect on our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the U.S. and throughout the world and acts of war may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. We are unable to predict whether war and the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We face risks associated with doing business through local partners. In some countries, because of local customs and regulations or for language reasons, we do business with our customers through local partners who resell our products and services, with or without value-added services. This can cause delays in closing contracts because of the increased complexity of having another party involved in negotiations. In addition, where the local partner provides additional software, hardware and/or services to the end-user customer, our products and services may only be a small portion of the total solution. As a result, payments made to us, as well as conditions surrounding acceptance, may be impacted by things that are out of our control. There may also be delays in getting payments made by the end-user customer through the reseller. We recently experienced delays in collecting from one of our resellers and this situation may arise again in the future, negatively impacting our cash flows. We face special risks associated with doing business in highly corrupt environments. Our international business operations include projects in developing countries and countries torn by conflict. To the extent we operate outside the U.S., we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from paying or offering anything of value to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business, or otherwise receiving discretionary favorable treatment of any kind. We may also be subject to local anti-bribery laws and regulations. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our local partners and agents, even though such parties are not always subject to our control. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA (whether directly or through acts of others, intentionally or through inadvertence) or other anti-bribery legislation could result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance, situations outside of our control may arise that could potentially put us in violation of the FCPA or other anti-bribery legislation inadvertently and thus negatively impact our business. 12 Table of Contents The trading price of our stock has been subject to wide fluctuations and may continue to experience volatility in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, merger and acquisition activity, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us, general stock market and economic considerations and other events or factors. This may continue in the future. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of stock of many technology companies and often has been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. As a result of the foregoing factors, our common stock may not trade at or higher than its current price. Sales of large blocks of our stock may result in the reduction in the market price of our stock and make it more difficult to raise funds in the future. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. The perception among investors that such sales will occur could also produce this effect. To the extent we have one or more stockholders who own a large percentage of our stock and those stockholders chose to liquidate their holdings, it may have a dramatic impact on the market price of our stock. These factors also could make it more difficult to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. We are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities, the compliance with which requires substantial amounts of management time and company resources. Any material weaknesses in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and NASDAQ, have issued requirements and regulations and are currently developing additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our compliance with certain of these rules, such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is likely to require the commitment of significant managerial resources. In addition, establishment of effective internal controls is further complicated because we are now a global company with multiple locations and IT systems. We continue to review our material internal control systems, processes and procedures for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Such a review may result in the identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls. Disclosures of material weaknesses in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation. We have never paid dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operation of our business. In addition, unless we are specifically authorized, our revolving credit facility prohibits us from declaring dividends to our common stockholders, . Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Certain provisions of our charter documents, employment arrangements, Delaware law and agreements with our most significant stockholder may discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include the following: · our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders; · our board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights agreement or “poison pill” designed to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire the Company; 13 Table of Contents · we have a staggered board with each member of the Board of Directors serving for three years; in any given year, only a portion of our Board of Directors have terms that expire; · our stockholders cannot take action by written consent; and · we have advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in the prescribed manner. The application of Section 203 and certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, including a classified board of directors, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by discouraging or preventing takeover attempts that might result in the payment of a premium price to our stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the three year moratorium imposed on business combinations by Section 203 will not apply to the Singer Group because, prior to the date on which the Singer Group became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction which resulted in the Singer Group becoming an interested stockholder. However, in connection with its purchase of the Company’s common stock resulting in the Singer Group becoming beneficial owners of more than 15% of the Company’s stock, Karen Singer, as Trustee of the Singer Children’s Management Trust, entered into a standstill agreement agreeing not to pursue, for 18 months, certain activities the purpose or effect of which may be to change or influence the control of the Company. The standstill agreement expired on September 30, 2009. On December 10, 2009, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the stockholder rights plan. The amendment increases, from 22.5% to 25.0%, the percentage of our common stock that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons may beneficially own without triggering the exercisability of the stockholder rights plan. All other provisions of the stockholder rights plan remain unchanged. On December 11, 2009, we received a letter from the Singer Trust informing us that as the result of the appointment of John B. Spirtos to our Board of Directors and our approval of the amendment to the stockholder rights plan the Singer Trust will vote in favor of the reelection of Philip Neches and Richard Ramlall to our Board of Directors at our 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and the Singer Trust will not seek or otherwise support additional stockholder protections or reforms at the meeting. Our executive officers have entered into management change in control agreements with us. Each agreement generally provides for acceleration on vesting of options, 50% upon a change in control (as defined in such agreements) if the executive remains employed with the new entity, or 100% in the event such executive’s employment is terminated. The acceleration of vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure and may have the effect of discouraging a merger proposal, tender offer or other attempt to gain control of us. Our Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan provides for acceleration of vesting under certain circumstances. Upon certain changes in control of us, vesting on some options awarded to directors may be accelerated. In addition, the successor corporation may assume outstanding stock awards or substitute equivalent stock awards. If the successor corporation refuses to do so, such stock awards will become fully vested and exercisable for a period of 15 days after notice from us but the option will terminate if not exercised during that period. As noted above, the acceleration on vesting of options upon a change in control may be viewed as an anti-takeover measure. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, that impact the communications industry, could negatively affect our revenue and operating results. Unsettled financial markets, higher interest rates, inflation, levels of unemployment and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to these conditions, negative financial news and declines in income and asset values. Challenging economic and market conditions may also result in: · difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to limited visibility into the spending plans of current or prospective customers; · pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; · lengthening sales cycles and slowing deployments; · increased competition for fewer projects and sales opportunities; · increased risk of charges relating to write off of goodwill and other intangible assets; · customer and reseller financial difficulty and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable. We are unable to predict how long the economic downturn will last and the magnitude of its effect on our business and results 14 Table of Contents of operations. If these conditions continue, or further weaken, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. General risk statement Based on all of the foregoing, we believe it is possible for future revenue, expenses and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. Furthermore, we believe that it is possible that in any given quarter or fiscal year our operating results could differ from the expectations of public market analysts or investors. In such event, or in the event that adverse conditions prevail, or are perceived to prevail, with respect to our business or generally, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 