Risk Factors” which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011). ASSET IMPAIRMENT We perform an impairment analysis for the carrying amount of our properties in accordance with GAAP when indicators of impairment exist. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we reduced the carrying amount to fair value, and recorded in continuing operations and in discontinued operations non-cash impairment charges aggregating $20.2 million (of which $18.6 million was attributable to certain properties leased to Marketing and $1.6 million was attributable to certain properties leased to other tenants) where the carrying amount of the property exceeded the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be received during the assumed holding period and the estimated net sales value expected to be received at disposition. The non-cash impairment charges related to the properties leased to Marketing were primarily attributable to significant increases in the carrying value for certain of the properties in conjunction with recording the Marketing Environmental Liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we accrued $47.9 million as the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities since we could no longer assume that Marketing will be able to meet its environmental remediation obligations and its obligations to remove underground storage tanks at the end of their useful life. We increased the carrying value for each of the affected properties by the amount of the related estimated environmental obligation and simultaneously recorded impairment charges aggregating $17.0 million where the increased carrying value of the property exceeded its estimated fair value. The non-cash impairment charges recorded earlier in 2011 were attributable to reductions in real estate valuations and reductions in the assumed holding period used to test for impairment. Supplemental Non-GAAP Measures We manage our business to enhance the value of our real estate portfolio and, as a REIT, place particular emphasis on minimizing risk and generating cash sufficient to make required distributions to shareholders of at least ninety percent of our ordinary taxable income each year. In addition to measurements defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), our management also focuses on funds from operations available to common shareholders (“FFO”) and adjusted funds from operations available to common shareholders (“AFFO”) to measure our performance. FFO is generally considered to be an appropriate supplemental non-GAAP measure of the performance of REITs. In accordance with the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts’ modified guidance for reporting FFO, we have restated reporting of FFO for all periods presented to exclude non-cash impairment charges. FFO is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as net earnings before depreciation and amortization of real estate assets, gains or losses on dispositions of real estate (including such non-FFO items reported in discontinued operations), non-cash impairment charges, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of accounting change. Other REITs may use definitions of FFO and/or AFFO that are different than ours and; accordingly, may not be comparable. Beginning in 2011, we revised our definition of AFFO to exclude direct expensed costs related to property acquisitions and other unusual or infrequently occurring items. We believe that FFO and AFFO are helpful to investors in measuring our performance because both FFO and AFFO exclude various items included in GAAP net earnings that do not relate to, or are not indicative of, our fundamental operating performance. FFO excludes various items such as gains or losses from property dispositions and depreciation and amortization of real estate assets and non-cash impairment charges. In our case, however, GAAP net earnings and FFO typically include the impact of the “Revenue Recognition Adjustments” comprised of deferred rental revenue (straight-line rental revenue), the net amortization of above-market and below-market leases and income recognized from direct financing leases on our recognition of revenues from rental properties, as 37 Table of Contents offset by the impact of related collection reserves. GAAP net earnings and FFO from time to time may also include property acquisition costs or other unusual or infrequently recurring items. Deferred rental revenue results primarily from fixed rental increases scheduled under certain leases with our tenants. In accordance with GAAP, the aggregate minimum rent due over the current term of these leases are recognized on a straight-line (or average) basis rather than when payment is contractually due. The present value of the difference between the fair market rent and the contractual rent for in-place leases at the time properties are acquired is amortized into revenue from rental properties over the remaining lives of the in-place leases. Income from direct financing leases is recognized over the lease terms using the effective interest method which produces a constant periodic rate of return on the net investments in the leased properties. Property acquisition costs are expensed, generally in the period when properties are acquired, and are not reflective of normal operations. Other unusual or infrequently occurring items are not reflective of normal operations. Management pays particular attention to AFFO, a supplemental non-GAAP performance measure that we define as FFO less Revenue Recognition Adjustments, property acquisition costs and other unusual or infrequently occurring items. In management’s view, AFFO provides a more accurate depiction than FFO of our fundamental operating performance related to: (i) the impact of scheduled rent increases from operating leases, net of related collection reserves; (ii) the rental revenue earned from acquired in-place leases; (iii) the impact of rent due from direct financing leases; (iv) our operating expenses (exclusive of direct expensed operating property acquisition costs); and (v) other unusual or infrequently occurring items. Neither FFO nor AFFO represent cash generated from operating activities calculated in accordance with GAAP and therefore these measures should not be considered an alternative for GAAP net earnings or as a measure of liquidity. For a reconciliation of FFO and AFFO, see “Item 6. Selected Financial Data”. 2011, 2010, and 2009 Acquisitions On January 13, 2011, we acquired fee or leasehold title to 59 Mobil-branded gasoline station and convenience store properties and also took a security interest in six other Mobil-branded gasoline stations and convenience store properties in a sale/leaseback and loan transaction with CPD NY Energy Corp. (“CPD NY”), a subsidiary of Chestnut Petroleum Dist. Inc. Our total investment in the transaction was $111.6 million including acquisition costs, which was financed entirely with borrowings under our Credit Agreement. The properties were acquired or financed in a simultaneous transaction among ExxonMobil, CPD NY and us whereby CPD NY acquired a portfolio of 65 gasoline station and convenience stores from ExxonMobil and simultaneously completed a sale/leaseback of 59 of the acquired properties and leasehold interests with us. The lease between us, as lessor, and CPD NY, as lessee, governing the properties is a unitary triple-net lease agreement (the “CPD Lease”), with an initial term of 15 years, and options for up to three successive renewal terms of ten years each. The CPD Lease requires CPD NY to pay a fixed annual rent for the properties (the “Rent”), plus an amount equal to all rent due to third party landlords pursuant to the terms of third party leases. The Rent is scheduled to increase on the third anniversary of the date of the CPD Lease and on every third anniversary thereafter. As a triple-net lessee, CPD NY is required to pay all amounts pertaining to the properties subject to the CPD Lease, including taxes, assessments, licenses and permit fees, charges for public utilities and all governmental charges. Partial funding to CPD NY for the transaction was also provided by us under a secured, self-amortizing loan having a 10-year term (the “CPD Loan”). On March 31, 2011, we acquired fee or leasehold title to 66 Shell-branded gasoline station and convenience store properties in a sale/leaseback transaction with Nouria Energy Ventures I, LLC (“Nouria”), a subsidiary of Nouria Energy Group. Our total investment in the transaction was $87.0 million including acquisition costs, which was financed entirely with borrowings under our Credit Agreement. The properties were acquired in a simultaneous transaction among Motiva Enterprises LLC (“Shell”), Nouria and us whereby Nouria acquired a portfolio of 66 gasoline station and convenience stores from Shell and simultaneously completed a sale/leaseback of the 66 acquired properties and leasehold interests with us. The lease between us, as lessor, and Nouria, as lessee, governing the properties is a unitary triple-net lease agreement (the “Nouria Lease”), with an initial term of 20 years, and options for up to two successive renewal terms of ten years each followed by one final renewal term of five years. The Nouria Lease requires Nouria to pay a fixed annual rent for the properties (the “Rent”), plus an amount equal to all rent due to third party landlords pursuant to the terms of third party leases. The Rent is scheduled to increase on every annual anniversary of the date of the Nouria Lease. As a triple-net lessee, Nouria is required to pay all amounts pertaining to the properties subject to the Nouria Lease, including taxes, assessments, licenses and permit fees, charges for public utilities and all governmental charges. In 2010, we purchased three properties for a total purchase price of $3.6 million. 38 Table of Contents On September 25, 2009, we acquired the real estate assets and improvements of 36 gasoline stations and convenience store properties located primarily in Prince George’s County Maryland for $49.0 million from White Oak Petroleum LLC (“White Oak”) for cash with $24.5 million draw under our existing Credit Agreement and $24.5 million provided by the three-year Term Loan Agreement entered into on that date. The real estate assets were acquired in a simultaneous transaction among ExxonMobil, White Oak and us, whereby White Oak acquired the real estate assets and the related businesses from ExxonMobil and simultaneously completed a sale/leaseback of the real estate assets of all 36 properties with us. We entered into a unitary triple-net lease for the real estate assets with White Oak which has an initial term of 20 years and provides White Oak with options for three renewal terms of ten years each extending to 2059. The unitary triple-net lease provides for annual rent escalations. In 2009 we also exercised our fixed price purchase option for one leased property and purchased three properties for a total purchase price of $6.3 million. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year ended December 31, 2011 compared to year ended December 31, 2010 The results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011 were materially affected by events and factors relating to Marketing and more fully described above in “General – Marketing and the Master Lease” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, the following adjustments are reflected in our results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011 or our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011: • We recorded a non-cash allowance for deferred rental revenue of $8.7 million (in addition to the $11.0 million allowance recorded during the quarter ended September 30, 2011) fully reserving for the deferred rent receivable relating to the Master Lease; • We recorded in revenues from rental properties and in rental property expense $4.1 million for real estate taxes paid (or accrued) by us which were due from Marketing since we began paying past due real estate taxes for 2011 and 2012, including taxes which Marketing historically paid directly; • We provided an $8.8 million reserve for bad debts, primarily attributable to nonpayment of pre-petition rent and real estate taxes due from Marketing; • We have accrued on our balance sheet $47.9 million as the present fair value of the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities which we expect to assume and recorded $0.2 million of accretion expense in environmental expenses for the post-petition period; • In conjunction with recording the Marketing Environmental Liabilities, we increased the carrying value for each of the related properties by the amount of the related estimated environmental obligation, recognized $0.9 million of depreciation expense, and simultaneously recorded impairment charges aggregating $17.0 million where the increased carrying value of the property exceeded its estimated fair value (in addition to $1.6 million of impairment charges previously recorded due to reductions in real estate valuations and the reductions in the assumed holding period used to test for impairment). Revenues from rental properties included in continuing operations were $110.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $88.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues from rental properties include approximately $63.6 million and $60.2 million in rent contractually due or received for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, from properties leased to Marketing under the Master Lease and approximately $45.5 million and $26.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, contractually due or received from other tenants. The increase in rent contractually due or received from other tenants for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to rental income from properties we acquired from, and leased back to, CPD in January 2011 and Nouria in March 2011. The increase in the rent contractually due or received from Marketing for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the real estate taxes we pay (or accrue) and bill to Marketing. As a result of Marketing’s bankruptcy filing, beginning in the first quarter of 2012, we 39 Table of Contents began paying past due real estate taxes for 2011 and 2012, which taxes Marketing historically paid directly. Revenues from rental properties and rental property expense included $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 for real estate taxes paid (or accrued) by us which were due from Marketing. The increase in rent contractually due or received from Marketing and other tenants for the year ended December 31, 2011 was also due, to a lesser extent, to rent escalations, partially offset by the effect of dispositions of real estate and lease expirations. In accordance with GAAP, we recognize rental revenue in amounts which vary from the amount of rent contractually due or received during the periods presented. As a result, revenues from rental properties include Revenue Recognition Adjustments comprised of non-cash adjustments recorded for deferred rental revenue due to the recognition of rental income on a straight-line basis over the current lease term, net amortization of above-market and below-market leases and recognition of rental income under direct financing leases using the effective interest rate method which produces a constant periodic rate of return on the net investments in the leased properties. Rental revenue includes Revenue Recognition Adjustments which increased rental revenue by $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Interest income from notes and mortgages receivable increased by $2.6 million to $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 due to the issuance of $30.4 million of notes receivable substantially all in connection with the acquisitions completed in 2011. Rental property expenses included in continuing operations, which are primarily comprised of rent expense and real estate and other state and local taxes, were $16.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in rental property expenses is principally due to additional real estate tax and rent expenses paid by us and reimbursable by our tenants related to properties and leasehold interests acquired in 2011 and accrued past due real estate taxes historically paid by Marketing directly, which taxes we began paying in the first quarter of 2012. The reimbursement of such expenses from our tenants is included in revenues from rental properties in our consolidated statement of operations. We provided a bad debt reserve for the taxes reimbursable from Marketing since do not expect to receive payment Marketing. Non-cash impairment charges of $20.0 million are included in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to no impairment charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we reduced the carrying amount to fair value, and recorded in continuing operations and in discontinued operations non-cash impairment charges aggregating $20.2 million (of which $18.6 million was attributable to certain properties leased to Marketing and $1.6 million was attributable to certain properties leased to other tenants). The non-cash impairment charges related to the properties leased to Marketing were primarily attributable to significant increases in the carrying value for certain of the properties in conjunction with recording the Marketing Environmental Liabilities. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we accrued $47.9 million as the aggregate Marketing Environmental Liabilities since we could no longer assume that Marketing will be able to meet its environmental remediation obligations and its obligations to remove underground storage tanks at the end of their useful life. In accordance with GAAP, we increased the carrying value for each of the affected properties by the amount of the related estimated environmental obligation which resulted in simultaneously recording impairment charges aggregating $17.0 million where the increased carrying value of the property exceeded its estimated fair value. The non-cash impairment charges recorded earlier in the year resulted from reductions in real estate valuations and the reductions in the assumed holding period used to test for impairment. Environmental expenses, net of estimated recoveries from underground storage tank (“UST” or “USTs”) funds included in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by $0.4 million, to $5.8 million, as compared to $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in net environmental expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to a higher provision for litigation loss reserves and legal fees which increased by $0.5 million for 2011 partially offset by a lower provision for estimated environmental remediation costs which decreased by an aggregate $0.2 million to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Environmental expenses vary from period to period and, accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the direction of change in reported environmental expenses for one period as compared to prior periods. General and administrative expenses increased by $15.4 million to $23.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $8.2 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in general and administrative expenses was principally due to $9.1 million of reserve for bad debts (substantially all of which was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011) primarily attributable to nonpayment of pre-petition rent and real estate taxes due from Marketing that we do not expect to collect, $2.0 million of property acquisition costs, $1.5 million of legal and professional fees incurred related to Marketing’s defaults of its obligations under the Master Lease and bankruptcy filing, higher employee related expenses and legal fees recorded in the year ended December 31, 2011. 40 Table of Contents As a result of Marketing’s material monetary default under the Master Lease and Marketing’s bankruptcy filing, we have concluded that it is probable that we will not receive the contractual lease payments when due from Marketing for the entire initial term of the Master Lease. Therefore, during 2011, we increased our reserve by recording additional non-cash allowances for deferred rent receivable of $19.8 million (including an allowance of $8.7 million recorded during the fourth quarter of 2011). These non-cash allowances reduced our net earnings and funds from operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, but did not impact our cash flow from operating activities or adjusted funds from operations since the impact of the straight line method of accounting is not included in our determination of adjusted funds from operations. Depreciation and amortization expense included in continuing operations for 2011 was $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to depreciation charges related to asset retirement costs and properties acquired, partially offset by the effect of certain assets becoming fully depreciated, lease terminations and dispositions of real estate. As a result, total operating expenses increased by approximately $62.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Other income, net, included in income from continuing operations was $0.016 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Gains from dispositions of real estate included in discontinued operations were $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, there were ten property dispositions. For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were six property dispositions. Other income, net and gains on disposition of real estate vary from period to period and accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the directions of change in reported gains for one period as compared to prior periods. Interest expense was $5.1 million for each of 2011 and 2010. While there was no significant change in interest expense recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the prior year period, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding decreased due to changes in the relative amounts of debt outstanding under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan, (each described in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below) and average borrowings outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2011 were higher than average borrowings outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010. The average borrowings outstanding in 2011 were impacted by, among other things, $113.0 million drawn under the Credit Agreement to finance the transaction with CPD NY, $92.1 million drawn under the Credit Agreement to finance the transaction with Nouria and the repayment of borrowings then outstanding under the Credit Agreement with substantially all of the net proceeds of $92.0 million received in 2011 from a 3.45 million share common stock offering. The operating results and gains from certain dispositions of real estate sold in 2011 and 2010 have been reclassified as discontinued operations. The operating results of such properties for the year ended December 31, 2010 has also been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform to the 2011 presentation. Earnings from discontinued operations decreased by $0.9 million to $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease was primarily due to lower gains on dispositions of real estate. Gains on disposition of real estate vary from period to period and accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the directions of change in reported gains for one period as compared to prior periods. As a result, earnings from continuing operations were $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and net earnings decreased by $39.2 million to $12.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $51.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, FFO decreased by $17.6 million to $42.1 million, as compared to $59.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and AFFO increased by $4.5 million to $62.7 million, as compared to $58.2 million for the prior year. The decrease in FFO for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to the changes in net earnings but exclude a $20.2 million increase in impairment charges, a $0.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense and a $0.7 million decrease in gains on dispositions of real estate. The increase in AFFO for the year ended December 31, 2011 also exclude a $19.8 million increase in the allowance for deferred rental revenue, a $2.0 million increase in acquisition costs and a $0.3 million decrease in Rental Revenue Adjustments which cause our reported revenues from rental properties to vary from the amount of rent payments contractually due or received by us during the periods presented (which are included in net earnings and FFO but are excluded from AFFO). 41 Table of Contents The calculations of net earnings per share, FFO per share and AFFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 were impacted by an increase in the weighted average number of shares outstanding as a result of the issuance of shares of common stock in 2010 and 2011. The weighted average number of shares outstanding used in our per share calculations increased by $5.2 million shares, or 18.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the prior year period. Accordingly, the percentage or direction of the changes in net earnings, FFO and AFFO discussed above may differ from the changes in the related per share amounts. Diluted earnings per share was $0.37 per share for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $1.84 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010. Diluted FFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.26 per share, as compared to $2.13 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010. Diluted AFFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.88 per share, as compared to $2.08 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010. Year ended December 31, 2010 compared to year ended December 31, 2009 Revenues from rental properties included in continuing operations were $88.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $84.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. We received approximately $60.2 million and $60.8 million in rent for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, from properties leased to Marketing under the Master Lease. We also received rent of $26.5 million and $21.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from other tenants. The increase in rent received for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to rental income from properties we acquired from, and leased back to, White Oak in September 2009 and, to a lesser extent, due to rent escalations, partially offset by the effect of dispositions of real estate and lease expirations. In accordance with GAAP, we recognize rental revenue in amounts which vary from the amount of rent contractually due or received during the periods presented. As a result, revenues from rental properties include Revenue Recognition Adjustments comprised of non-cash adjustments recorded for deferred rental revenue due to the recognition of rental income on a straight-line basis over the current lease term, net amortization of above-market and below-market leases and recognition of rental income under direct financing leases using the effective interest rate method which produces a constant periodic rate of return on the net investments in the leased properties. Rental revenue includes Revenue Recognition Adjustments which increased rental revenue by $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Interest income from mortgages receivable was $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Rental property expenses included in continuing operations, which are primarily comprised of rent expense and real estate and other state and local taxes, were $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in rental property expenses is due to a reduction in rent expense caused by a decrease in the number of leased properties sublet to tenants due to third-party lease expirations as compared to the prior year. There were no impairment charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $1.1 million of non-cash impairment charges recorded in the year ended December 31, 2009 was attributable to general reductions in real estate valuations and, in certain cases, the removal or scheduled removal of underground storage tanks by Marketing. Environmental expenses, net of estimated recoveries from underground storage tank (“UST” or “USTs”) funds included in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased by $3.3 million, to $5.4 million, as compared to $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net environmental expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to a lower provision for litigation loss reserves and legal fees which decreased by $2.1 million for 2010, and a lower provision for estimated environmental remediation costs which decreased by an aggregate $1.2 million to $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Environmental expenses vary from period to period and, accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the direction of change in reported environmental expenses for one period as compared to prior periods. General and administrative expenses were $8.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to $6.8 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in general and administrative expenses was principally due to higher employee related expenses and provisions for doubtful accounts. Depreciation and amortization expense included in continuing operations for 2010 was $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the effect of certain assets becoming fully depreciated, lease terminations and dispositions of real estate partially offset by depreciation charges related to properties acquired. 42 Table of Contents As a result, total operating expenses decreased by approximately $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Other income, net, included in income from continuing operations was $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Gains from dispositions of real estate included in discontinued operations were $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, there were six property dispositions. For the year ended December 31, 2009, there were eight property dispositions. Other income, net and gains on disposition of real estate vary from period to period and accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the directions of change in reported gains for one period as compared to prior periods. Interest expense was $5.1 million for each of 2010 and 2009. While there was no significant change in interest expense recorded for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the prior year period, the weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding increased due to changes in the relative amounts of debt outstanding under our Credit Agreement and Term Loan, (each described in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below) and average borrowings outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2010 were less than average borrowings outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2009. The lower average borrowings outstanding was principally due to the repayment of a portion of the outstanding balance of our Credit Agreement with a portion of the $108.2 million net proceeds from a public stock offering of 5.2 million shares of our common stock during the second quarter of 2010, partially offset by $49.0 million borrowed in September 2009 under our Term Loan and our Credit Agreement which was used to finance the acquisition of properties. The operating results and gains from certain dispositions of real estate sold in 2010 and 2009 have been reclassified as discontinued operations. The operating results of such properties for the year ended December 31, 2009 has also been reclassified to discontinued operations to conform to the 2010 presentation. Earnings from discontinued operations decreased by $3.9 million to $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower gains on dispositions of real estate. Gains on disposition of real estate vary from period to period and accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on the magnitude or the directions of change in reported gains for one period as compared to prior periods. As a result, earnings from continuing operations increased by $8.6 million to $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $41.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and net earnings increased by $4.7 million to $51.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, FFO increased by $6.0 million to $59.7 million, as compared to $53.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and AFFO increased by $6.5 million to $58.2 million, as compared to $51.7 million for the prior year. The increase in FFO for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the changes in net earnings but excludes a $1.1 million decrease in impairment charges, a $1.3 million decrease in depreciation and amortization expense and a $3.8 million decrease in gains on dispositions of real estate. The increase in AFFO for the year ended December 31, 2010 also excludes a $0.6 million decrease in Rental Revenue Adjustments which cause our reported revenues from rental properties to vary from the amount of rent payments contractually due or received by us during the periods presented (which are included in net earnings and FFO but are excluded from AFFO). The calculations of net earnings per share, FFO per share, and AFFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 were impacted by an increase in the weighted average number of shares outstanding as a result of the issuance of 5.2 million shares of common stock in May 2010. The weighted average number of shares outstanding used in our per share calculations increased by 3.2 million shares, or 12.9%, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Accordingly, the percentage or direction of the changes in net earnings, FFO and AFFO discussed above may differ from the changes in the related per share amounts. Diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.05 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $1.84 per share as compared to $1.89 per share for the year ended December 31, 2009. Diluted FFO per share decreased by $0.03 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $2.13 per share, as compared to $2.16 per share for the year ended December 31, 2009. Diluted AFFO was $2.08 per share, as compared to $2.09 per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 43 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash flows from operations and available cash and cash equivalents. Historically, we have also utilized our Credit Agreement/Amended Credit Agreement that expires in March 2013 as a source of liquidity. However, under the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement, we are unable to borrow additional funds unless we meet certain criteria described below. Net cash flow provided by operating activities reported on our consolidated statement of cash flows for 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $61.2 million, $56.9 million and $52.5 million, respectively. Our business operations and liquidity is dependent on our ability to reposition the portfolio and generate cash flow from the properties subject to the Master Lease discussed in “General — Marketing and the Master Lease” above. We may be required to enter into alternative loan agreements, sell assets or issue additional equity at unfavorable terms if we do not have access to funds under our Amended Credit Agreement or Amended Term Loan Agreement. We cannot predict how Marketing’s defaults of its obligations under the Master Lease and bankruptcy filing and our ability to reposition the portfolio and generate cash flow from the properties subject to the Master Lease may impact our access to capital and our liquidity. It is possible that our business operations or liquidity may be adversely affected by our ability to reposition the portfolio. Any significant loss of revenue or increase in expenses could give rise to an event of default under the Amended Credit Agreement and the Amended Term Loan Agreement. Any such event of default, if not waived, would prohibit us from drawing funds against the Amended Credit Agreement, could result in an increase in the cost of our borrowings or the acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement and the Amended Term Loan Agreement. In order to continue to meet our liquidity needs (including the repayment of the balance outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and the Amended Term Loan Agreement when due in March 2013), we must extend the maturity of or refinance our existing debt or obtain additional sources of financing. Additional sources of financing may be more expensive or contain more onerous terms than exist under our current Amended Credit Agreement and the Amended Term Loan Agreement, or simply may not be available. As a result, we may be required to enter into alternative loan agreements, sell assets, reduce or eliminate our dividend or issue additional equity at unfavorable terms if we do not extend the term of the Amended Credit Agreement beyond March 2013. There can be no assurance that at or prior to expiration of the Amended Credit Agreement we will be able to further amend the Amended Credit Agreement or enter into a new revolving credit agreement on favorable terms, if at all. Management believes that subject to recapturing and re-letting or selling properties subject to the Master Lease, our operating cash needs for the next twelve months can be met by cash flows from operations, and available cash and cash equivalents. If we fail to obtain additional sources of financing or refinance our existing debt, this could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, ability to pay dividends or stock price. During the first quarter of 2011, we completed a public stock offering of 3.5 million shares of our common stock. Substantially all of the $92.0 million net proceeds from the offering was used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under our Credit Agreement and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. During the second quarter of 2010, we completed a public stock offering of 5.2 million shares of our common stock. The $108.2 million net proceeds from the offering was used in part to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under our Credit Agreement, described below, and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. Credit Agreement /Amended Credit Agreement We are a party to a $175.0 million amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit agreement entered into in March 2007 (the “Credit Agreement”) with a group of commercial banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the “Bank Syndicate”) which was scheduled to expire in March 2012. As of December 31, 2011, borrowings under the Credit Agreement were $147.7 million, bearing interest at a rate of 1.25% per annum. The Credit Agreement permitted borrowings at an interest rate equal to the sum of a base rate plus a margin of 0.00% or 0.25% or a LIBOR rate plus a margin of 1.00%, 1.25% or 1.50%. The applicable margin was based on our leverage ratio at the end of the prior calendar quarter, as defined in the Credit Agreement. Prior to the expiration of the Credit Agreement, on March 9, 2012, we entered into an agreement with the Bank Syndicate amending the interest rate and other significant terms of the Credit Agreement and extending the maturity date by one year to March 2013 (the “Amended Credit Agreement”). The Amended Credit Agreement provides for security in the form of, among other items, mortgage liens on several portfolios of our properties with an aggregate value of not less than $220.0 million based on a percentage of loan outstanding to property value. The Amended Credit Agreement allocates $125.0 million of the total Bank Syndicate commitment to a term loan and $50.0 million of the total Bank Syndicate commitment to a revolving facility. Under the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement, any proceeds from the issuance of debt will be used to pay down and permanently reduce the aggregate amount of Bank Syndicate commitments. Additionally, 50% of proceeds from any equity issuance by us will be used to pay down and permanently reduce the aggregate amount of Bank Syndicate commitments with the remaining proceeds used to pay down the revolving facility. Such repayments under the revolving facility can be redrawn assuming we meet the terms and conditions discussed below whereas amounts used to permanently reduce Bank Syndicate commitments cannot be redrawn. Under the Amended Credit Agreement, we are unable to access undrawn funds other than $4.0 million drawn for closing costs related to the Amended Credit Agreement until we meet certain criteria including achieving pro forma revenue targets, the resolution of material litigation with our tenants, and conditioned upon having no tenant upon whom our financial results are materially dependent subject to bankruptcy or any such similar proceedings. The Amended Credit Agreement does not provide for scheduled reductions in the principal balance prior to its maturity. The Amended Credit Agreement permits borrowings at an interest rate equal to the sum of a base rate plus a margin of 2.00% or a LIBOR rate plus a margin of 3.00%. 44 Table of Contents The annual commitment fee on the unused Amended Credit Agreement is 0.40%. The Amended Credit Agreement contains restrictive terms and conditions including restricting our use of proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity or the sale of properties; weekly financial reporting; and financial covenants such as those requiring us to maintain minimum cash balances, minimum liquidity, minimum EBITDA, coverage ratios and other covenants which may limit our ability to incur debt or pay dividends. The Amended Credit Agreement contains events of default, including default under the Amended Term Loan Agreement, change of control, failure to maintain REIT status or a material adverse effect on our business, assets, prospects or condition. Any event of default, if not cured or waived, would increase by 200 basis points (2.00%) the interest rate we pay under the Amended Credit Agreement and prohibit us from drawing funds against the Amended Credit Agreement and could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement and could also give rise to an event of default and consequent acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Term Loan Agreement described below. We may be required to enter into alternative loan agreements, sell assets, reduce or eliminate our dividend or issue additional equity at unfavorable terms if we do not have access to funds under our Amended Credit Agreement or as a result of acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement and Amended Term Loan Agreement. Term Loan Agreement /Amended Term Loan Agreement We are a party to a $25,000,000 three-year term loan agreement with TD Bank (the “Term Loan Agreement” or “Term Loan”) which as of December 31, 2011 was scheduled to expire in September 2012. On March 9, 2012, we entered into an agreement with TD Bank amending significant terms of the Term Loan and extending the maturity date by approximately six months to March 2013 (the “Amended Term Loan Agreement”). As of December 31, 2011, borrowings under the Term Loan Agreement were $22.8 million bearing interest at a rate of 3.50% per annum. The Term Loan Agreement and the Amended Term Loan Agreement provide for annual reductions of $0.8 million in the principal balance with a balloon payment due at maturity. A balloon payment of $21.9 million is due in March 2013 pursuant to the Amended Term Loan Agreement. The Amended Term Loan Agreement bears interest at a rate equal to a 30 day LIBOR rate (subject to a floor of 0.40%) plus a margin of 3.10%. The Amended Term Loan Agreement contains restrictive terms and conditions including financial covenants such as those requiring us to maintain minimum cash balances, minimum liquidity, minimum EBITDA, coverage ratios and other covenants which may limit our ability to incur debt or pay dividends. The Amended Term Loan Agreement contains events of default, including default under the Amended Credit Agreement, change of control, failure to maintain REIT status or a material adverse effect on our business, assets, prospects or condition. Any event of default, if not cured or waived, would increase by 300 basis points (3.00%) the interest rate we pay under the Amended Term Loan Agreement and could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Term Loan Agreement and could also give rise to an event of default and could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under our Amended Term Loan Agreement and Amended Credit Agreement. We may be required to enter into alternative loan agreements, sell assets, reduce or eliminate our dividend or issue additional equity at unfavorable terms if we do not have access to funds under our Amended Credit Agreement or as a result of acceleration of our indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement and Amended Term Loan Agreement. Swap Agreement We were party to a $45.0 million LIBOR based interest rate Swap Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as the counter-party (the “Swap Agreement”), which expired on June 30, 2011. The Swap Agreement was intended to hedge our exposure to market interest rate risk by effectively fixing, at 5.44%, a portion of the LIBOR component of the interest rate determined under our existing LIBOR based loan agreements. We are currently fully exposed to interest rate risk on our aggregate borrowings floating at market rates. Capital Expenditures Since we generally lease our properties on a triple-net basis, we have not historically incurred significant capital expenditures other than those related to acquisitions. Our property acquisitions and capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 amounted to $167.5 million, $4.7 million, and $55.3 million, respectively. As part of the repositioning of the properties subject to the Master Lease, we are evaluating potential capital expenditures and funding sources. We have no current plans to make material improvements to any of our properties other than the properties subject to the Master Lease. However, our tenants frequently make improvements to the properties leased from us at their expense. (For additional information regarding capital expenditures related to the properties subject to the Master Lease, see “