Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks, including those set forth below, that could have a negative effect on our financial condition and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or other Red Lion communications. General economic conditions will continue to negatively impact our results and liquidity. Most business has been affected by current economic factors, including Red Lion. Discretionary travel has been impacted by economic pressures, which in turn has impacted the hospitality industry and our company. Higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending all have reduced the demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services and put pressure on industry room rates and occupancy. In 2011, we expect our operations and financial results will continue to be impacted by general economic conditions, weakened hospitality demand and constraints on availability of financing. Factors such as continued unfavorable economic conditions, a significant decline in demand for lodging, or continued instability of the credit and capital markets could result in further pressure on credit, which could negatively impact our ability to obtain future financing on acceptable terms and our liquidity in general. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate or we do not meet our financial debt covenants, we could potentially face liquidity problems that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Due to the geographic concentration of the hotels in our system, our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in regional economic conditions. Of the 44 hotels in our system at December 31, 2010, 34 are located in Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Montana. Our results of operations and financial condition may be impacted by the economy of the Pacific Northwest, which is dependent in large part on a limited number of major industries, including agriculture, tourism, technology, timber and aerospace. These industries may be affected by: • The rate of national and local unemployment; • The relative strength of national and local economies; and • Changes in governmental regulations and economic conditions. In addition, companies in these industries may decide to relocate all or part of their businesses outside the Pacific Northwest. Any of these factors could materially affect the local economies in which these industries operate and where we have a presence. Other adverse events specifically affecting the Pacific Northwest, such as economic recessions or natural disasters, could cause a loss of revenues for our hotels in this region. Our concentration of assets within this region may put us at greater economic risk. In addition, we operate or market multiple hotels within several markets. A downturn in general economic or other relevant conditions in these specific markets or in any other market in which we operate could lead to a decline in demand in these markets and cause a loss of revenues from these hotels. Our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. Our revenues and operating results may be impacted by and continue to fluctuate due to a number of factors, including but not limited to: • Decreases in demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of general economic conditions; • Changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets; • The attractiveness of our hotels to consumers and competition from other hotels; • The need to periodically repair and renovate the hotels in our system; 8 Table of Contents • The lack of availability of capital to allow us to fund renovations and investments; • The quality and performance of the employees of our hotels; • Increases in transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on travel; • Increases in operating costs, due to inflation and other factors such as minimum wage requirements, overtime, healthcare, working conditions, work permit requirements and other labor-related costs, energy prices, insurance and property taxes, as well as increases in construction or associated renovation costs; • Regulations and changes therein relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises; • Impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, heightened security measures and other national, regional or international political and geopolitical conditions; • Travelers’ fears of exposure to contagious diseases or food borne illness; • The impact of internet intermediaries and competitor pricing; • Oversupply of hotel rooms in markets in which we operate; • Restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations, or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations; • Possible requirements to make substantial modifications to our hotels to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other governmental or regulatory actions; • The financial condition of third-party property owners and franchisees, which may impact their ability to fund amounts required for renovations as required under franchise agreements; • Changes in guest expectations with respect to amenities at our hotels that require additional capital to meet; and • Improvements in technology that require capital investment in infrastructure to implement and maintain. Any of these factors could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and thereby reduce occupancy, ADR and RevPAR; give rise to government imposed fines or private litigants winning damage awards against us; or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our expenses may remain constant or increase even if revenues decline. The expenses of owning and operating a hotel are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in its revenues. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. In addition, we have recently been investing in sales and marketing, franchising, technology and personnel resources in an effort to position our company for future growth. These investments may not produce returns we anticipate or the returns may take longer to achieve than expected. We are exposed to impairment risk of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts fair value measurement through our company’s estimated weighted average cost of capital used to determine discount rate, and through our common stock price that is used to determine market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, our recorded goodwill remained unchanged at $28.0 million, and other intangible assets totaled $8.0 million and $10.2 million, respectively. While we have not previously recorded any impairment losses for goodwill, continued adverse market conditions could have a further impact on the fair value of our reporting units that could result in future impairments of goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets. In addition, we recently announced plans to offer for sale our Red Lion Hotel Fifth Avenue in Seattle, Washington, our Red Lion Hotel 9 Table of Contents Denver Southeast in Aurora, Colorado, and our Red Lion Colonial Hotel in Helena, Montana. Sales of one or more of these hotels or other assets may also result in disposal of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets. The assessment for possible impairment requires us to make judgments, including: • Estimated future cash flows from the respective properties, which is dependent upon internal forecasts; • Estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business; • The useful life over which our cash flows will occur; • The determination of real estate and prevailing market values; • Asset appraisals; and • Current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers or net sales proceeds from previous, comparable transactions, if available and appropriate. In accordance with the guidance for the impairment of long-lived assets, if the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than net book value, the excess of net book value over estimated fair value is charged to current earnings. As discussed further in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, assets with a carrying amount of $3.7 million were written down to their estimated fair value, resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $3.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, as discussed further in Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, an intangible asset related to a lease contract was written down to its fair value, resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $2.0 million. Both impairment charges related to the termination of a sublease agreement at our Red Lion Hotel Sacramento. Changes in our estimates and assumptions as they relate to valuation of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets could affect, potentially materially, our financial condition or results of operations in the future. We have incurred debt financing and may incur increased indebtedness in connection with growth of our system of hotels, capital expenditures or for other corporate purposes. A substantial portion of our outstanding indebtedness is secured by individual properties. Neither our Articles of Incorporation nor our Bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance growth of our system of hotels, renovations and for general corporate purposes. Accordingly, we could become highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise. Our indebtedness is, and will likely continue to be, secured by mortgages on our owned hotels. If we are not able to meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets, including our hotels, to foreclosure. Adverse economic conditions could cause the terms on which borrowings become available to be unfavorable to us. In such circumstances, if we are in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more of our owned hotels at unattractive prices. Economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, which would increase debt service requirements on our variable rate credit facilities and could reduce the amount of cash available for general corporate purposes. Our business is capital intensive and any potential acquisition, development, redevelopment and renovation projects might be more costly than we anticipate. We are committed to keeping our properties well maintained and attractive to our customers in order to enhance our competitiveness within the industry. This creates an ongoing need for cash, and to the extent we or our franchisees cannot fund expenditures from cash generated from operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Hotel redevelopment, renovation and new project development are subject to a number of risks, including: • Construction delays and cost overruns; 10 Table of Contents • Numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • Uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; and • Potential environmental problems. As a result, we could incur substantial costs for projects that are never completed. Further, financing for these projects may not be available or, even if available, may not be on terms acceptable to us. The availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in part on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, development, redevelopment or renovation of the hotels in our system could impact expected revenues and availability of funds, negatively affect our reputation among hotel customers, owners and franchisees and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, including the carrying costs of our assets. Failure to comply with debt covenants could adversely affect our financial results or condition. We maintain a $30 million revolving credit facility that includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, the most restrictive of which are financial covenants dealing with leverage, interest coverage and debt service coverage. At December 31, 2010, we had $18 million outstanding under the facility and were in compliance with our covenants. We also have variable rate indebtedness secured by our Red Lion Bellevue and Templins properties, the principal balance of which was $12.4 million at December 31, 2010. This indebtedness has restrictive covenants that mirror those of our credit facility. There is no assurance that we will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Any failure to do so could result in a demand for immediate repayment of our obligations under the credit facility and any other indebtedness for which such failure or repayment demand constitutes an event of default, which would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, and limit our ability to obtain financing. For additional information, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We will be required to refinance our revolving credit facility this year and other indebtedness this year and in 2013, and there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance that debt on competitive terms. Our revolving credit facility matures on September 13, 2011. As a result, we will be required to repay, refinance or renegotiate the facility prior to that date. Our ability to refinance the facility on acceptable terms will depend on a number of factors, including our degree of leverage, the value of our assets, borrowing restrictions which may be imposed by lenders and conditions in the credit markets at the time we refinance. We also have at least $23.4 million in term debt maturing this year, and $49.9 million maturing in 2013. The availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we can exert little control. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing when needed on acceptable terms. For additional information, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hospitality and leisure companies. The lodging industry is comprised of numerous national, regional and local hotel companies and is highly competitive. Competition for occupancy is focused on three major segments of travelers: business travelers, convention and group business travelers and leisure travelers. All three segments are significant occupancy drivers for our hotel system and our marketing efforts are geared towards attracting their business. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities and quality of accommodations. We compete against national limited and full service hotel brands and companies, as well as various regional and local hotels in the midscale and upscale full-service hotel segments of the industry. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, a larger network of locations and greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Additionally, new and existing competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, 11 Table of Contents which could attract customers away from our hotels. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain customers depends on our success in differentiating and enhancing the quality, value and efficiency of our product and customer service. We also compete with other hotel brands and management companies for hotels to add to our system, including through franchise and management agreements. Our competitors include management companies as well as large hotel chains that own and operate their hotels and franchise their brands. As a result, the terms of prospective franchise and management agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In addition, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties in connection with future franchise or management agreements. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, our market share and operating results could be diminished, resulting in a decrease in occupancy, ADR and RevPAR for our hotels. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our hotel locations, thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and completing franchise acquisitions, which could limit our ability to implement our growth strategy and result in significant expense. We are currently pursuing the expansion of our franchise operations in markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees. The growth in the number of franchised hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond the control of our franchisees or us. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised hotels: • the ability of our franchisees to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to the Red Lion brand, include, among others: the availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel; the cost and availability of suitable hotel locations; the availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments; cost effective and timely construction of hotels (which can be delayed due to, among other reasons, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and securing required governmental permits; • competition with other hotel companies; • our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our central reservation system to support additional franchisees in a timely, cost-effective manner; • the effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization; • our dependence on our independent franchisees’ skills and access to financial resources necessary to open or rebrand hotels; and • our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees. Our failure to compete successfully for franchise properties or to attract and maintain relationships with hotel owners and hotel investors could adversely affect our ability to expand our system of hotels. An inability to implement our growth strategy could limit our ability to grow our revenue base and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents If our franchisees terminate or fail to renew their relationship with our company, or if new franchise hotels are unable to effectively integrate into our system, our franchise revenue will decline. As of December 31, 2010, there were 13 hotels in our system that were owned by others and operated under franchise agreements. Franchise agreements generally specify a fixed term and contain various early termination provisions, such as the right to terminate upon notice by paying us a termination fee. There is no assurance that these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms. Government regulation could impact our franchise business. The Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions where we market franchises regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have “franchise relationship laws” or “business opportunity laws” that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect. The results of some of our hotels are significantly impacted by group contract business and other large customers, and the loss of such customers for any reason could harm our operating results. Group contract business and other large customers, or large events, can significantly impact the results of operations of our hotels. These contracts and customers vary from hotel to hotel and change from time to time. Such contracts are typically for a limited period of time after which they may be eligible for competitive bidding. The impact and timing of large events are not always predictable and are often episodic in nature. The operating results for our hotels can fluctuate as a result of these factors, possibly in adverse ways, and these fluctuations can harm our overall operating results. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brand. If demand for our hotels decreases or the value of our name, image or brand diminishes, our business and operations would be harmed. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by maintaining innovative, attractive and comfortable properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. If we are unable to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business would be harmed if our public image or reputation were to be diminished by the operations of any of the hotels in our system. Our brand name and trademarks are integral to our marketing efforts. If the value of our name, image or brand were diminished, our business and operations would be harmed. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore our ability to promptly sell one or more of our hotels in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions is limited. The real estate market, including the market for our hotels, is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. If we decide to sell one or more of our hotels, we may be unable to do so and, even if we are able to sell the hotels, it may take us a long time to find willing purchasers and the sales may be on unfavorable terms. We also may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel can be sold. If we do not have funds available for such purposes, our ability to sell the hotel could be restricted or the price at which we can sell the hotel may be less than if these improvements were made. 13 Table of Contents In addition, it may be difficult or impossible to convert hotels to alternative uses if they become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to an alternative use would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to service debt, including our debentures. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our hotels. Our recently announced plans to offer for sale the Red Lion Hotel on Fifth Avenue in Seattle, Washington, the Red Lion Hotel Denver Southeast in Aurora, Colorado and the Red Lion Colonial Hotel in Helena, Montana may not be completed as anticipated. Earlier this year we announced plans to offer for sale our Red Lion Hotel on Fifth Avenue in Seattle, Washington, our Red Lion Hotel Denver Southeast in Aurora, Colorado, and our Red Lion Colonial Hotel in Helena, Montana. Sales of one or more of these hotels may take longer than anticipated, may not occur at all, or may occur at price points that do not meet all of our objectives for the sales. In addition, the sale of these properties may negatively impact the value of the Red Lion brand or our ability to obtain new franchisees, particularly if the purchasers do not continue to flag the hotels with the Red Lion brand or if they do not maintain the hotels in a manner that meets guest expectations. Risks associated with real estate ownership may adversely affect revenue or increase expenses. We are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real property. Revenue and cash flow from our hotels and other real estate may be adversely affected by, and costs may increase as a result of, changes beyond our control, including but not limited to: • Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • Changes in local real estate market conditions; • Increases in interest rates, and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing and capital leases; • Increases in property and other taxes; • The impact of present or future environmental legislation; • Adverse changes in other governmental regulations, insurance and zoning laws; and • Condemnation or taking of properties by governments or related entities There is currently a proposal to expand light rail to Bellevue, Washington, which could result in taking of a portion or all of our property in that city. While we may oppose such actions, if one or more of our hotels were taken through the eminent domain process, particularly at a time when hotel prices are depressed, we might not receive compensation commensurate with the long-term fair value of the property, and in addition, we may lose business presence in that market. These adverse conditions could potentially cause the terms of our borrowings to change unfavorably. In such circumstances, if we were in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to sell one or more hotels at unattractive prices. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through third-party travel websites such as Priceline.com, Travelocity.com and Expedia.com. As internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these 14 Table of Contents internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our profitability may be adversely affected. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes which would harm the operation of our hotels. We rely heavily on our employees to provide high-quality personal service at our hotels. At certain of our owned and leased hotels, employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and attempts could be made in the future to unionize our employees at other locations. Any labor dispute or stoppage could harm our ability to provide high-quality personal services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and harm our results of operations. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we manage or franchise. The nature of our responsibilities under our franchise agreements or any hotel management agreements we may enter into in the future may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees and hotel owners and joint venture partners; however, we may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in franchisees leaving our system of hotels, or possibly result in litigation, arbitration or other legal actions. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the period from May through October generally accounting for the greatest portion of our annual revenues. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks during this period, including labor force shortages, cash flow problems, economic downturns and poor weather conditions. The adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business. Our properties are subject to risks relating to natural disasters, terrorist activity and war, and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results without adequate insurance coverage or preparedness. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties. We carry comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, flood, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and rental loss insurance for our properties. However, certain types of catastrophic losses, such as those from earthquake, volcanic activity, terrorism and environmental hazards, may exceed or not be covered by our insurance coverage because it is not economically feasible to insure against such losses. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Similarly, war and terrorist activity, including the potential for war and threats of terrorist activity, epidemics, travel-related accidents, as well as geopolitical uncertainty and international conflict, which impact domestic and international travel, have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. In addition, depending on the severity, a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of our business. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters; 15 Table of Contents • power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events; and • computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information and other breaches of security. We rely on our systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation systems. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the systems’ function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations, we could be subject to fines or other restrictions on our business. We collect and maintain information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including credit card information and information on guest preferences that we use to enhance our customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the U.S. and by various contracts under which we operate. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may subject us to inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to service our guests and market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, noncompliance with applicable privacy regulations, either by us or in some circumstances by third parties engaged by us, could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Failure to maintain the security of internal or customer data could adversely affect us. Our businesses require collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers, which are entered into, processed by, summarized by and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is critical to us. Our customers and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. A theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant remedial and other costs, fines and litigation. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks, increase brand awareness and further develop our brand. We have registered the following trade names and associated trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office: Red Lion, WestCoast, Net4Guests, Stay Comfortable and TicketsWest. We have also registered some of these trademarks in Canada and Mexico, and are in the process of obtaining trademark registrations in Asia and Europe. We also own various derivatives of these trademarks that are registered with or have a registration application pending with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. We cannot be assured that the measures we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental regulations. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing and future environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under current federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate such contaminated property properly, may adversely affect the ability of the owner of the property to 16 Table of Contents borrow using such property as collateral for a loan or to sell such property. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used or transferred or in which businesses may be operated, and may impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our acquisition of a hotel, a Phase I environmental assessment is conducted by a qualified independent environmental engineer. A Phase I environmental assessment involves an on-site inspection and researching historical usages of a property and databases containing registered underground storage tanks and other matters to determine whether an environmental issue exists with respect to the property which needs to be addressed. If the results of a Phase I environmental assessment reveal potential issues that warrant further investigation, a Phase II environmental assessment, which may include soil testing, ground water monitoring or borings to locate underground storage tanks, will be ordered. It is possible that Phase I and Phase II environmental assessments will not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that there will be material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns of which we will not be aware. Phase I environmental assessments have been performed on all properties owned by us, although they have not been performed on all of our leased properties. We have not performed Phase II environmental assessments on two of our owned properties for which Phase II assessments were recommended, because we determined that any further investigation was not warranted for materiality reasons. One of these properties is located on a former railroad yard, purchased by us in 1975. In the past five years as we have further commercially developed the site, construction activities have excavated contaminated soil remaining from the railroad yard that we have remediated in accordance with applicable regulations and at the direction of the applicable environmental jurisdiction. In March 2009, odors in the basement of our hotel in Salt Lake City led to the detection of a release of petroleum from an adjacent gas station owned by Sinclair Marketing. Petroleum and constituents of petroleum were identified in sumps on the hotel property and in both the soil and groundwater samples from the property that were analyzed. Since the initial detection of petroleum release, Sinclair has taken steps to remediate the property by excavating contaminated soils and by pumping and treating contaminated groundwater. Sinclair, through its counsel, has agreed to complete any further remediation that may be necessary to clean up this property. Sinclair has also agreed to reimburse us for our costs, including attorney’s fees, related to Sinclair’s remediation efforts, and has made periodic payments of those amounts. However, if Sinclair does not satisfy its commitment to remediate the property in accordance with applicable State of Utah cleanup standards, we could be liable to the State of Utah for any remaining soil or groundwater contamination by virtue of our status as the owner of the property. The State of Utah has been involved in Sinclair’s cleanup efforts at the hotel property and on Sinclair’s adjacent property, through the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, the Division of Environmental Response and Remediation and an Assistant Attorney General representing those state agencies. At the request of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), we recently began to implement a Corrective Action Work Plan at our Kalispell property. The work plan consists of utility corridor investigations, municipal water sampling, monitoring well drilling and installation, and quarterly groundwater monitoring of an identified petroleum release site on the property. The purpose of the work plan is to provide additional documentation of the extent and magnitude of hydrocarbon contamination at the site. As part of this work, eight monitoring wells were installed and sampled. A recent report shows substantially higher than legal levels of hydrocarbons in ground water in some holes. In order for DEQ to mandate any corrective action the monitoring wells must be in place for a full year before a determination is made. At that time, DEQ may want the wells monitored for another year or may decide not to have us correct anything. Other than as disclosed above, we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any material noncompliance, material liability or material claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that these properties do not have any environmental concerns associated with them. In addition, there is no assurance that we will not discover problems that currently exist, but of which we have no current knowledge, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current 17 Table of Contents environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by third parties unrelated to us. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could impact our business. There can be no assurance that the periodic evaluation of our internal controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will not result in the identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls or that our auditors will be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply may have consequences on our business including, but not limited to, increased risks of financial statement misstatements, SEC sanctions and negative capital market reactions. We face risks relating to litigation. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against us, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money and we may not be insured for such a loss. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely impacted by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, accessibility and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits in the future may be instituted against us and we may incur material damages and expenses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If these or other franchise agreements are not renewed, or are terminated prior to the expiration of their respective terms, or if new franchise hotels are unable to effectively integrate into our system, the resulting decrease in revenue and loss of market penetration could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years there has been increasing activity by patent holding companies (so-called patent “trolls”) that do not use technology but whose sole business is to enforce patents for monetary gain against companies in a wide variety of businesses or industries. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a substantial sum of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if infringement is unsubstantiated or speculative. We have been threatened with one such claim and another claim has actually been recently filed against us. Each claim relates to separate technology, but we believe that each such technology is non-proprietary. If we are ultimately found to have violated a patent, our operations could be negatively impacted and/or we might be subject to substantial financial penalties, licensing fees and attorneys’ fees. It is not possible to predict the potential impact on our business and operations of any future claims of this type that may be asserted against us. If any hotel acquisitions fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if we are unable to effectively integrate new hotels into our operations, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. Based on our experience, newly acquired, developed or converted hotels typically begin with lower occupancy and room rates, thereby resulting in lower revenue. Any future expansion within our existing markets could adversely affect the financial performance of our hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively impact our overall results of operations. Potential expansion into new markets may also present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. Our inability to anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will potentially impose on our management and management information and reservation systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to any new markets could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We rely on our central reservation system for occupancy at our hotels and any failures in such system could negatively affect our revenues and cash flows. The hospitality industry requires the use of technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations, operation of our customer loyalty program, distribution and other purposes. These technologies can be expected to change guests’ expectations, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced requiring further investment capital. We maintain a hotel reservation system that allows us to manage our rooms inventory through various distribution channels, including our websites, and execute rate management strategies. As part of our marketing strategy, we encourage guests to book on our website, which guarantees the lowest rate available compared to third-party travel websites. The development and maintenance of our central reservation system and other technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. If our systems fail to operate as anticipated, or we fail to keep up with technological or competitive advances, our revenues and cash flows could suffer. Our current or future joint venture arrangements may not reflect solely our best interests and may subject these investments to increased risks. We may in the future acquire additional interests in other properties through joint venture arrangements with other entities. Partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks. Some of these acquisitions may be financed in whole or in part by loans under which we are jointly and severally liable for the entire loan amount along with the other joint venture partners. The terms of these joint venture arrangements may be more favorable to the other party or parties than to us. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, investing in a property through such arrangements may subject that investment to risks not present with a wholly owned property, including, among others, the following: • The other owner(s) of the investment might become bankrupt; • The other owner(s) may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • The other owner(s) may be unable to make required payments on loans under which we are jointly and severally liable; • The other owner(s) may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, such as selling the property at a time when to do so would have adverse consequences to us; • Actions by the other owner(s) might subject the property to liabilities in excess of those otherwise contemplated by us; and • It may be difficult for us to sell our interest in the property at the time we deem a sale to be in our best interests. Failure to retain senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance on the lodging industry experience and the institutional knowledge of members of our senior management team. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with greater financial resources than ours, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. Finding suitable replacements for senior management and other key employees could be difficult, and there can be no assurance we will continue to be successful in retaining or attracting qualified personnel in the future. We do not carry key person insurance on any of our senior management team. 19 Table of Contents The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience extreme volatility unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise or fall, including but not limited to: • Changes in general economic conditions, such as the recent recession, and subsequent fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • Changes in financial estimates, expectations of future financial performance or recommendations by analysts; • Changes in market valuations of companies in the hospitality industry; • Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • Issuances of additional common stock or other securities; and • Announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances. Washington law and our governing corporate documents contain provisions that could deter takeover attempts. Our company is incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction, such as a merger, with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder becomes an acquiring person. Due to the shareholdings of our significant shareholders, we may be limited in our ability to undertake transactions requiring shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2010, Columbia Pacific Opportunity Fund, L.P. had sole voting and investment power with respect to 22.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Donald K. Barbieri, our Chairman of the Board, had sole voting and investment power with respect to 5.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. 1.0% of our shares are held in a joint account, with respect to which Mr. Barbieri has shared voting power. Richard L. Barbieri, who is also a director and a brother of Donald K. Barbieri, beneficially owned 0.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, we believe that other members of the Barbieri family who are not directors, executive officers or 5% shareholders individually hold our outstanding common stock. As a result, one or more of these shareholders may have the ability as a group to substantially influence actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including a merger or a sale of all of our assets or a transaction that results in a change of control. The performance of our entertainment division is particularly subject to fluctuations in economic conditions. Our entertainment division, which comprised 5.6% of our total revenues from continuing operations in 2010, engages in event ticketing and the presentation of various entertainment productions. Our entertainment division is vulnerable to risks associated with changes in general regional and economic conditions, the potential for significant competition and a change in consumer trends, among other risks. In addition, we face the risk that entertainment productions will not tour the regions in which we operate or that such productions will not choose us as a presenter or promoter. If we are unable to locate lessees for our retail space at our mall, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected. We own and lease to others over 162,000 square feet of retail space in Kalispell, Montana. We are subject to the risk that leases for this space might not be renewed upon their expiration, the space may not be relet or the terms of renewal or reletting such space, including the cost of required renovations, might be less favorable to us than current lease terms. Vacancies could result due to the termination of a tenant’s tenancy, the tenant’s financial failure or a 20 Table of Contents breach of the tenant’s obligations. We may be unable to locate tenants for rental spaces vacated in the future or we may be limited to renting space on terms unfavorable to us. Delays or difficulties in attracting tenants and costs incurred in preparing for tenant occupancy could reduce cash flow, decrease the value of a property and jeopardize our ability to pay our expenses. If one or more of our hotel subtenants breach subleases, our income and cash flow may be adversely affected. We lease and sublease to others six hotels, including the Red Lion Hotel Sacramento to an operator in Sacramento, and five Doubletree and Hilton hotels to Doubletree DTWC Corporation, including the Doubletree Seattle Airport, the Hilton Salt Lake City Center, the Doubletree San Diego-Mission Valley, the Doubletree Durango and the Doubletree Sonoma Wine Country. We are subject to the risk that these subtenants might breach the subleases for one or more of these hotels. Such breaches might include but not be limited to failures to pay rent, failures to properly maintain the properties or failures to meet the financial or other obligations set forth in the master lease for these hotels. Such breaches could result in the loss of income, decreased cash flow, breach of the master lease for the hotels and/or loss of the hotels. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 