Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Finances We are an early stage company without commercial therapeutic products, and we cannot assure you that we will develop sufficient revenues in the future to sustain our business. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities present in an early stage biopharmaceutical company. With the exception of panitumumab, all of our product candidates are in early stages of development. We will need to make significant additional investments in research and development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, and regulatory, and sales and marketing activities, to commercialize current and future product candidates. Our product candidates, if successfully developed and approved for marketing, may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenues to enable us to be profitable. We have a history of losses and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred net losses since we were organized as an independent company, including in the last five years net losses of $60.9 million in 2001, $208.9 million in 2002, $196.4 million in 2003, $187.5 million in 2004 and $207.0 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $959.2 million. Our losses to date have resulted principally from: · research and development costs relating to the development of our XenoMouse and XenoMax technologies and antibody product candidates, including panitumumab; · manufacturing start-up costs related to our manufacturing facility including depreciation, costs of outside contractors and personnel for quality assurance and quality control activities; · general and administrative costs relating to our operations; · impairment charges related to our strategic investments in CuraGen, ImmunoGen, and MDS Proteomics; and · impairment charges relating to acquired technologies, including our SLAM technology and technologies in the fields of intrabodies and catalytic antibodies. We expect to incur additional losses for the foreseeable future as a result of our research and development costs and manufacturing start-up costs, including costs associated with conducting preclinical development and clinical trials, which will continue to be substantial. We intend to invest significantly in our products prior to entering into licensing agreements. This will increase our need for capital and will result in losses for at least the next several years. We expect that the amount of operating losses will fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of increases or decreases in our research and development efforts, the execution or termination of licensing, manufacturing and other contractual arrangements, the progress or lack of progress of product development candidates in our collaboration with AstraZeneca, the initiation, success or failure of clinical trials and whether any of our product candidates, including panitumumab, achieve commercial success. We are currently unprofitable and may never be profitable, and our future revenues could fluctuate significantly. Since our founding, we have funded our research and development activities primarily from private placements and public offerings of our securities and from revenues generated by our licensing and other contractual arrangements. Prior to any marketing approval of panitumumab, we expect that substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future will result from payments under licensing and other contractual arrangements. To date, payments under licensing and other agreements have been in the form of license fees, milestone 25 payments, reimbursement for research and development expenses, option fees, and payments for manufacturing services. Payments under our existing and any future customer agreements will be subject to significant fluctuation in both timing and amount. Our revenues may not be indicative of our future performance or of our ability to continue to achieve contractual milestones. Our revenues and results of operations for any period may also not be comparable to the revenues or results of operations for any other period. Our revenues for any period may not be sufficient to cover our operating costs, including the costs of operating our manufacturing plant. We may not be able to: · enter into further co-development, licensing, manufacturing or other agreements; · successfully complete preclinical development or clinical trials; · obtain required regulatory approvals; · successfully manufacture or market product candidates; or · generate additional revenues or profitability. Our failure to achieve any of the above goals would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional financing, and an inability to raise the necessary capital or to do so on acceptable terms would threaten the continued success of our business. We will continue to expend substantial resources to support research and development and operate our manufacturing facility, including costs associated with preclinical development and clinical trials. In the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred expenses of $137.0 million, $124.4 million and $94.3 million, respectively, on research and development. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our manufacturing start-up costs were $18.3 million. Regulatory and business factors will require us to expend substantial funds in the course of completing required additional development, preclinical testing and clinical trials of, and attaining regulatory approvals for, product candidates. The amounts of expenditures that will be necessary to execute our business plan are subject to numerous uncertainties that may adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the scope and results of preclinical development and clinical trials; · the retention of existing and establishment of further co-development, licensing, manufacturing and other agreements, if any; · the decisions of our collaborator, Amgen, under our co-development agreement for panitumumab, which provides Amgen decision-making authority for development and commercialization activities and obligates us to share 50% of the development and commercialization costs; · continued scientific progress in our research and development programs and the size and complexity of these programs; · the cost of operating our manufacturing facility, validating our processes and complying with good manufacturing practice regulations; · the cost of conducting commercialization activities and arrangements; · the time and expense involved in seeking regulatory approvals; · competing technological and market developments; 26 · the time and expense of filing and prosecuting patent applications, and enforcing and defending against patent claims; · our investment in, or acquisition of, other companies; · the amount of product or technology in-licensing in which we engage; · the extent and duration of market exclusivity we can command for our products, through patent and regulatory laws; and · other factors not within our control. We believe that our current cash balances, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and the cash generated from our licensing and other contractual arrangements, will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements for at least one year. However, because of the uncertainties in our business, including the uncertainties listed above, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. In addition, we may choose to obtain additional financing from time to time. We may choose to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, licensing and other agreements, a bank line of credit, sale-lease back financing, mortgage financing, asset sales or other arrangements. We cannot be sure that any additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity or equity-related financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. We may also choose to obtain funding through licensing and other contractual arrangements. Such agreements may require us to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. Our failure to raise capital when needed would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2005, we had $450.0 million principal amount of outstanding notes, including $100.0 million of convertible subordinated notes due March 15, 2007, $300.0 million of outstanding convertible senior notes due December 15, 2011 and a $50.0 million note held by AstraZeneca due in 2013. In addition, at December 31, 2005, we had accrued approximately $65.7 million in long-term liabilities to Amgen pursuant to our co-development agreement. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: · we will have additional cash requirements in order to support the payment of interest on our outstanding indebtedness; · increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and · depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: · to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; · to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the notes; · to sell selected assets; 27 · to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or · to reduce or delay planned operating expenditures, such as clinical trials. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. Failure to complete our proposed acquisition by Amgen could adversely affect our stock price and future business and operations. On December 14, 2005, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to merge with Amgen in an all-cash transaction. The proposed acquisition by Amgen is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approval by Abgenix stockholders and other conditions described in the merger agreement. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be satisfied or that the merger will be successfully completed. In the event that the merger is not completed: · management’s attention may be diverted from our day-to-day business, we may lose key employees and our ongoing business and prospects, as well as relationships with customers and partners, may be disrupted by resulting uncertainties; · the market price of shares of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of those shares reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; and · we will be required to pay significant costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and advisory fees. Any such events could adversely affect our stock price and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The restrictive covenants of the merger agreement have placed, and will continue to place, significant restrictions on our business operations until the completion of the merger with Amgen. Pursuant to the merger agreement between the Company and Amgen, until the completion of the merger with Amgen, the Company is required to conduct its business in the ordinary and usual course consistent with past practice. In addition, the Company shall not, among other things, agree to do any of the following without the prior written consent of Amgen: · acquire any corporation, partnership or other business organization or make any capital expenditure above certain threshold amounts; · issue, sell, pledge or dispose of any shares of the Company or stock options, warrants, calls, commitments or rights of the Company’s capital stock; or · enter into, modify, amend or terminate any contract relating to research, development, clinical trial, distribution, supply, manufacturing, marketing or co-promotion of, or collaboration with respect to, any product or product candidate relating to the Company’s current research and development. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of our Products Our XenoMouse and XenoMax technologies may not produce safe, efficacious or commercially viable products, which will be critical to our ability to generate revenues from our products. Our XenoMouse and XenoMax technologies are novel approaches to developing antibodies as products for the treatment of diseases and medical disorders. To date, neither we nor our customers have commercialized any antibody therapeutic products based on our technologies. Moreover, we are not aware of any commercialized, fully human antibody therapeutic products that have been generated from any 28 technologies similar to ours. Our antibody therapeutic product candidates are still in various stages of development and many are in an early development stage. To date, we have only initiated clinical trials with respect to four XenoMouse-derived antibody therapeutic product candidates, and our collaborators have initiated clinical trials with respect to twelve other XenoMouse-derived antibody therapeutic product candidates. We cannot be certain that our technologies will generate antibodies against every antigen to which they are exposed in an efficient and timely manner, if at all. Furthermore, our technologies may not result in any meaningful benefits to our current or potential customers or in product candidates that are safe and efficacious for patients. Our failure to generate commercial products with our technology would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not successfully develop our products, or if they do not achieve commercial success, our business will be materially harmed. Our development of current and future product candidates, either alone or in conjunction with collaborators, is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include: · delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · failure in clinical trials or failure to receive regulatory approvals; · emergence of superior or equivalent product development technologies or products; · disruption in the available supply of our animal colony; · inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale; · inability to market products due to third party proprietary rights; · election by our customers not to pursue product development; · failure by our customers to develop products successfully; and · failure to achieve market acceptance. In certain instances, we have terminated the clinical development of product candidates when the results of clinical trials did not warrant continued development. We hope to be able to make up for the loss of diversity in our product pipeline through the number and variety of potential new product candidates we have in preclinical development. However, to the extent that we are unable to maintain a broad and diverse range of product candidates, our success would depend more heavily on one or a few product candidates. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts and those of our customers and collaborators may not result in any commercially viable products. Our failure to successfully complete a significant portion of these development efforts, to obtain required regulatory approvals or to achieve commercial success with any approved products would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials, which are expensive and have uncertain outcomes. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. We have 29 incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense for, and we have devoted and expect to continue to devote a significant amount of time to, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Many factors may delay our commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials, including: · the number of patients that ultimately participate in the trial, which may be affected by the availability of competing therapeutic alternatives; · the length of time required to enroll suitable subjects; · the duration of patient follow-up that seems appropriate in view of the results; · the number of clinical sites included in the trials; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials or any governmental or regulatory delays or clinical holds requiring suspension or termination of the trials; · delays, suspensions or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; · regulatory policies regarding expedited approval procedures; · unforeseen safety issues; and · inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, adequate supplies of the product candidate being tested. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials. We rely on third parties, including our collaborators, to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completing, or in failure to complete, these trials if the third parties fail to perform under our agreements with them. In addition, we have ongoing research projects that may lead to product candidates, but we have not submitted INDs, nor begun clinical trials for these projects. Our ability to file additional INDs, and to build diversity and scale in our product portfolio, depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify additional potential product candidates through our preclinical research and to conduct preclinical research efficiently. Our preclinical or clinical development efforts may not be successfully completed, we may not file further INDs and clinical trials may not commence as planned. Two of our proprietary product candidates, panitumumab and ABX-10241, are in various stages of clinical trials. We have discontinued clinical trials of three proprietary product candidates, ABX-MA1, ABX-CBL and ABX-IL8. To date, data obtained from these clinical trials have been insufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy under applicable FDA guidelines. As a result, these data will not support an application for regulatory approval without further clinical trials. Clinical trials that we conduct or that third parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. However, regulatory authorities may not permit us to undertake any additional clinical trials for our product candidates. In addition, the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our partners, the institutional review boards for clinical trial sites or we may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time. 30 Our product candidates may fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy in clinical trials. Failures of clinical trials of any product candidate could delay the development of other product candidates or hinder our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, failures in our clinical trials can lead to additional research and development expenses. Any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials could impede our ability to commercialize our product candidates and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in subsequent trials. Results from our early stage clinical trials and those of our collaborators are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical trials. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter regulatory delays or rejections as a result of many factors, including: changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study; lack of efficacy during clinical trials; or unforeseen safety issues. Our own ability to manufacture is uncertain, which may make it more difficult for us to develop and sell our products. We have limited experience manufacturing antibody therapeutic product candidates in our manufacturing facility. We intend to use our manufacturing facility for the manufacture of product candidates for clinical trials and to support the potential early commercial launch of a limited number of products, in each case, in compliance with FDA and European good manufacturing practices. We have yet to manufacture a commercial product in our facility. In May 2000, we signed a long-term lease for the building that contains this manufacturing facility. Construction has been completed and the facility is operational, although portions of the facility are still to be validated. In October 2003, following an inspection by the California State Department of Health Services, we received a State Drug Manufacturing License. The license permits us to manufacture and ship clinical material from our manufacturing facility. The total cost of the facility was approximately $150 million. The costs of completing validation of this facility and qualifying the facility for regulatory compliance may be higher than expected. We currently have excess production services capacity and this condition may persist for an extended period. However, if the commercial launch of one or more of our product candidates proves successful, we will likely experience capacity shortages and may need to use one or more third party facilities to produce these products in sufficient quantities. The process of manufacturing antibody therapeutic products is complex. While the managers of the facility have gained extensive manufacturing experience in prior positions with other companies, we have limited experience in the clinical or commercial scale manufacturing of our existing product candidates, or any other antibody therapeutic products, in our facility. We will need to hire, train and retain additional qualified manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance personnel. Also, we will need to manufacture such antibody therapeutic products in a facility and by an appropriately validated process that comply with FDA, European and other regulations. Our manufacturing operations will be subject to ongoing, periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, European and other foreign regulatory agencies and state regulatory agencies to ensure compliance with good manufacturing practices and applicable health and safety regulations. If we are unable to manufacture product or product candidates in accordance with FDA and European good manufacturing practices we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our products. Any significant manufacturing changes for the production of our product candidates could result in delays in development or regulatory approval or in the reduction or 31 interruption of commercial sales of our product candidates. Our inability to manufacture clinical or commercial supplies or to maintain our manufacturing operations in compliance with applicable regulations within our planned time and cost parameters could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may encounter problems with the following: · production yields; · quality control and assurance; · availability of qualified personnel; · availability of raw materials; · adequate training of new and existing personnel; · ongoing compliance with our standard operating procedures; · ongoing compliance with FDA and other health authority regulations; · production costs; and · development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities will require us to register any manufacturing facilities in which our antibody therapeutic products are manufactured. These facilities will be subject to periodic and unannounced inspections to confirm compliance with FDA good manufacturing practices or other equivalent regulations. The FDA or foreign regulatory bodies will not grant pre-market approval of our product candidates, including panitumumab, if our facilities cannot pass a pre-license inspection. Therefore, both the filing and approval of a BLA for panitumumab could be delayed if we are unable to meet the relevant pre-license requirements and or if our facilities and operating systems do not pass a pre-license inspection. In complying with FDA regulations and foreign regulatory requirements, we will be obligated to expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality control in an effort to ensure that our product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements. Our failure to maintain regulatory compliance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may rely on third party manufacturers, and we may have difficulty conducting clinical trials or commercializing product candidates if a manufacturer does not perform in accordance with our expectations. Previously, we relied on contract manufacturers to produce candidates under good manufacturing practice regulations for use in our clinical trials. While we have established our own manufacturing facility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to qualify this facility for compliance with FDA and European good manufacturing practices or manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates for clinical trials or a potential early commercial launch. We continually evaluate our options for commercial production of our product candidates, including third party manufacturers. Third party manufacturers may encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, shortage of capacity, compliance with FDA and other applicable regulations, production costs, and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. They may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our product candidates. Also, third party manufacturers may have difficulty maintaining compliance with FDA good manufacturing practices or equivalent regulations, or having their facilities pass a pre-license or routine inspection. Any failure of third party manufacturers to deliver the required quantities of our product candidates for clinical use on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable 32 prices, and our failure to find replacement manufacturers or successfully implement our own manufacturing capabilities, would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The successful growth of revenues from our manufacturing services may depend on our ability to find third parties who agree to use our services and our ability to provide those services successfully. We may enhance our contract revenues by entering into agreements to provide antibody production services to third parties. Potential third parties include our existing collaborators, as well as other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, technology companies, academic institutions and other entities. We must enter into these agreements to successfully develop this aspect of our business. To date, we have entered into only a few production services agreements and we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into additional agreements. We may not be able to secure manufacturing agreements on favorable terms. If we do obtain such agreements, we may encounter difficulties in performing as agreed. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, training of personnel, compliance with FDA good manufacturing practices and other applicable regulations, production costs, and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. The failure to deliver required quantities of product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The successful growth of our business depends in part on our ability to find third party collaborators to assist or share in the costs of product development. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of antibody therapeutic products depends, in part, upon the formation of collaboration agreements with third parties. Potential third parties include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, technology companies, academic institutions and other entities. We must enter into these agreements to successfully develop and commercialize product candidates. These agreements are necessary in order for us to: · access proprietary antigens for which we can generate fully human antibody products; · fund research, preclinical development, clinical trials and manufacturing; · seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and · successfully commercialize existing and future product candidates. Our ability to continue our current collaborations and to enter into additional third party collaborations is dependent in large part on our ability to successfully demonstrate that our XenoMouse technology is an attractive method of developing antibody therapeutic products. We have generated only a limited number of fully human antibody therapeutic product candidates pursuant to our collaboration agreements that have advanced to the clinical stage. Our failure to maintain our existing collaboration agreements or to enter into additional agreements could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on licensing, collaboration, manufacturing and other agreements with third parties subjects us to a number of risks. These agreements may not be on terms that prove favorable to us, and we typically afford our collaborators significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of the planned activities. Licensing and other contractual arrangements may require us to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. To the extent we agree to work exclusively with one collaborator in a given therapeutic area, our opportunities to collaborate with other entities could be curtailed. For example, our collaboration with AstraZeneca for the identification and development of 33 therapeutic antibodies in oncology contains exclusivity provisions that significantly restrict our ability, during a three-year target selection period, to enter into arrangements with third parties in the field of oncology as well as our ability to conduct research and development activities in that field. To the extent that our collaboration with AstraZeneca is not successful, our ability to develop antibodies for use in oncology applications through other collaborations will be severely curtailed. Our collaboration with AstraZeneca also limits our ability to develop such antibodies through our own independent development. We cannot control the amount or timing of resources our collaborators may devote to a collaboration, and collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. Additionally, business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under the arrangement. Even if we fulfill our obligations under an agreement, typically our collaborators can terminate the agreement at any time following proper written notice. The termination or breach of agreements by our collaborators, or the failure of our collaborators to complete their obligations in a timely manner, could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to establish further collaboration agreements or any or all of our existing agreements are terminated, we may be required to seek new collaborators or to undertake product development and commercialization at our own expense. Such an undertaking may: · limit the number of product candidates that we will be able to develop and reduce the likelihood of successful product introduction; · significantly increase our capital requirements; and · place additional strain on our management’s time. Existing or potential collaborators may pursue alternative technologies, including those of our competitors, or enter into other transactions that could make a collaboration with us less attractive to them. For example, if an existing collaborator purchases a company that is one of our competitors, that company could be less willing to continue its collaboration with us. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology or products developed with any current or future collaborator. Lengthy negotiations with potential new collaborators or disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. The decision by our collaborators to pursue alternative technologies or the failure of our collaborators to develop or commercialize successfully any product candidate to which they have obtained rights from us could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which will require us to spend significant amounts of money, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals, which are required for us to conduct clinical testing and commercialize our products. Our product candidates under development are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. If we market our products abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Neither the FDA nor any other regulatory agency has approved any of our product candidates for sale in the United States or any foreign market. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical studies and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The recent withdrawal of certain approved products from the market may lead to longer review periods by the FDA, particularly for product candidates being reviewed under an accelerated approval process, or may result in requests for more extensive trials or data. 34 Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data, manufacturing data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The generation of data supporting the approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, and may involve post-marketing surveillance and requirements for post-marketing studies. As we conduct clinical trials for a given product candidate, we may decide or the FDA may require us to make changes in our plans and protocols. Such changes may relate to, for example, changes in the standard of care for a particular disease indication, comparability of efficacy and toxicity of materials where a change in materials is proposed, or competitive developments foreclosing the availability of expedited approval procedures. We may be required to support proposed changes with additional preclinical or clinical testing, which could delay the expected time line for concluding clinical trials. The approval of a product candidate may depend on the acceptability to the FDA of data from clinical trials conducted outside the United States. Regulatory requirements are subject to frequent change. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · adversely affect the successful commercialization of any drugs that we or our customers develop; · impose costly procedures on us or our customers; · diminish any competitive advantages that we or our customers may attain; and · adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Our product candidates may not be approved or may be approved with limitations or for indications that differ from those we initially target. Even if marketing approval from the FDA is received, the FDA may impose post-marketing requirements, such as: · labeling and advertising requirements, restrictions or limitations, such as the inclusion of warnings, precautions, contra-indications or use limitations that could have a material impact on the future profitability of our product candidates; · testing and surveillance to monitor our future products and their continued compliance with regulatory requirements; and · inspection of products and manufacturing operations and, if any inspection reveals that the product or operation is not in compliance, prohibiting the sale of all products, suspending manufacturing or withdrawing market clearance. The discovery of previously unknown problems with our future products may result in restrictions of the products, including withdrawal from manufacture. Additionally, certain material changes affecting an approved product such as manufacturing changes or additional labeling claims are subject to further FDA review and approval. The FDA may revisit and change its prior determination with regard to the safety or efficacy of our products and withdraw any required approvals after we obtain them. Even prior to any formal regulatory action requiring labeling changes or affecting manufacturing, we could voluntarily decide to cease the distribution and sale or recall any of our future products if concerns about their safety and efficacy develop. In their regulation of advertising, the FDA and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) may issue correspondence alleging that particular advertising or promotional practices are false, misleading or deceptive. The FDA or FTC may impose a wide array of sanctions on companies for such advertising practices. Additionally, physicians may prescribe pharmaceutical or biologic products for uses that are not described in a product’s labeling or differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. While such “off-label” uses are common and the FDA does not regulate physicians’ choice of treatments, the FDA does restrict a manufacturer’s communications on the subject of “off-label” use. Companies cannot promote FDA-approved pharmaceutical or biologic products for off-label uses. If our advertising or 35 promotional activities fail to comply with the FDA’s or FTC’s regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, the FDA or FTC. If we fail to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we or our third party manufacturers may be subject to sanctions, including: · delays; · warning letters; · fines; · clinical holds; · consent decrees; · product recalls or seizures; · changes to advertising; · injunctions; · refusal of the FDA to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; · total or partial suspension of product manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sales; · civil penalties; · withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and · criminal prosecutions. In many instances we expect to rely on our customers and co-developers to file INDs and generally direct the regulatory approval process for products derived from our technologies. These customers and co-developers may not be able to or may choose not to conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any product candidates. If they fail to obtain required governmental approvals, we will experience delays in or be precluded from marketing or realizing the commercial benefits from the marketing of products derived from our technologies. In addition, our failure to obtain the required approvals would preclude the commercial use of our products. Any such delays and limitations may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manufacture our product candidates in compliance with current good manufacturing practices requirements and applicable regulations, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We are required to comply with the applicable FDA current good manufacturing practice, or “cGMP” regulations and the requirements of other regulatory authorities. Good manufacturing practice regulations include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities, including our facility, must pass a pre-license inspection by the FDA before initiating commercial manufacturing of any product such as panitumumab. Our failure to pass a pre-license inspection by the FDA could delay or prevent the approval of our product candidates. In addition, the FDA enforces post-marketing regulatory requirements such as cGMP requirements, through periodic unannounced inspections. We do not know whether we will pass any future FDA inspections. Failure to pass an inspection could disrupt, delay or shut down our manufacturing operations. In addition, cGMP requirements are constantly evolving and new or different requirements may apply in the future. Manufacturing facilities in California, including our facility, are also subject to the licensing requirements of and inspection by the State of California Department of Health 36 Services. In October 2003, following an inspection, we received a Drug Manufacturing License from the State of California. The license, which must be renewed annually, permits us to manufacture and ship clinical material. We are responsible for manufacturing clinical and, for the first five years after launch, commercial supplies for panitumumab with Amgen’s support and assistance. We may not be able to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and other regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with these requirements could delay or prevent the approval of our product candidates and would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products do not gain market acceptance among the medical community, our revenues would greatly decline and might not be sufficient to support our operations. Our product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community. We may not achieve market acceptance even if clinical trials demonstrate safety and efficacy, and the necessary regulatory and reimbursement approvals are obtained. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates that we develop will depend on a number of factors, including: · establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; · cost-effectiveness of our product candidates; · their potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; · reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and · marketing and distribution support for our product candidates, including the efforts of our collaborators where they have marketing and distribution responsibilities. Physicians will not recommend therapies using our products until such time as clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such procedures as compared to conventional drug and other treatments. Even if we establish the clinical safety and efficacy of therapies using our antibody product candidates, physicians may elect not to recommend the therapies for any number of other reasons, including whether the mode of administration of our antibody products is effective for certain indications. Antibody products, including our product candidates as they would be used for certain disease indications, are typically administered by infusion or injection, which requires substantial cost and inconvenience to patients. Our product candidates, if successfully developed, will compete with a number of drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others. Physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community may not accept or utilize any product candidates that we or our customers develop. The failure of our products to achieve significant market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have marketing and sales experience, which may require us to rely on others to market and sell our products and may make it more challenging for us to commercialize our product candidates. Although we have been marketing our XenoMouse technology to potential customers and collaborators for several years, we do not have marketing, sales or distribution experience or capability with respect to our therapeutic product candidates. We intend to enter into arrangements with third parties to market and sell most of our therapeutic product candidates when we commercialize them. For example, pursuant to our amended joint development agreement for panitumumab, Amgen has decision-making authority for development and commercialization activities relating to any products developed under the collaboration, and we have the right to co-promote any products in the United States. We have elected to pursue the co-promotion of panitumumab in the United States. Should this product candidate proceed to commercialization, it will take significant resources to develop the appropriate sales 37 capabilities and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this successfully. Regarding other product candidates, to the extent that we enter into marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, our revenues, if any, will depend on the efforts of others. These efforts may not be successful. If we choose not to, or are unable to, enter into third party arrangements, we will need to develop sufficient marketing and sales capabilities, which may need to be substantial, in order to achieve commercial success for any product candidate approved by the FDA. We may not successfully develop marketing and sales capabilities or have sufficient resources to do so. If we do develop such capabilities, we will compete with other companies that have experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our failure to enter into successful marketing arrangements with third parties and our inability to conduct such activities ourselves would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights will be critically important to the success of our business, and we may not be able to protect these rights in the United States or abroad. Our success depends in part on our ability to: · obtain patents; · protect trade secrets; · operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others and defend ourselves from any allegation that we have done so; and · prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We attempt to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. However, the patent position of biopharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our patent applications will be approved or any resulting patents will be enforced. In addition, third parties may challenge, seek to invalidate or circumvent any of our patents, once they are issued. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide any protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. Also, patent rights may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technologies. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our technology or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, and, in addition, the parties may breach such agreements. Also, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed. 38 We may face challenges from third parties regarding the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, or from third parties asserting that we are infringing their patents or proprietary rights, which could result in litigation that would be costly to defend and could deprive us of valuable rights. Parties have conducted research for many years in the antibody and transgenic animal fields. The term “transgenic”, when applied to an animal, such as a mouse, refers to an animal that has chromosomes into which human genes have been incorporated. This research has resulted in a substantial number of issued patents and an even larger number of pending patent applications. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Our technologies may unintentionally infringe the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. Such infringement or violation may prevent us and our customers from pursuing product development or commercialization. Such a result could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights has been common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, United States Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and internationally involve complex legal and factual questions. As a result, such proceedings are costly and time-consuming to pursue and their outcome is uncertain. Litigation may be necessary to: · enforce patents that we own or license; · protect trade secrets or know-how that we own or license; or · determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our involvement in any litigation, interference or other administrative proceedings could cause us to incur substantial expense and could significantly divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination may subject us to loss of our proprietary position or to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties. An adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding, or a failure to obtain necessary licenses, may restrict or prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, if any. Costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and may include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. These outcomes could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry We face intense competition and rapid technological change, and if we fail to develop products that keep pace with new technologies and that gain market acceptance, our product candidates or technologies could become obsolete. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We face competition in several different forms. Our antibody generation activities currently face competition from several companies and technologies. In addition, the product candidates that we or our customers are developing also face competition. Finally, we compete with companies that currently offer antibody production services, and may compete with companies that currently only manufacture their own antibodies but could offer antibody production services to third parties. We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antibody therapy. Many of these companies have 39 commenced clinical trials of antibody therapeutic product candidates or have successfully commercialized antibody therapeutic products for use on their own or in combination therapies. Many of these companies are addressing the same diseases and disease indications as we or our customers are. We compete with companies that offer the services of generating monoclonal antibodies for antibody-based therapeutics. These competitors have specific expertise or technology related to antibody development and introduce new or modified technologies from time to time. Many of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their customers or collaborators, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their customers or collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in: · developing products; · undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and · manufacturing and marketing products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing products before we do. If we commence commercial product sales, we will be competing against companies with greater marketing and manufacturing capabilities, areas in which we have limited experience. We also face, and will continue to face, competition from academic institutions, government agencies and research institutions. There are numerous competitors working on products to treat each of the diseases for which we are seeking to develop therapeutic products. In addition, any product candidate that we successfully develop may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. Competition may also arise from: · other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease; · new small molecules; or · other classes of therapeutic agents. Developments by competitors may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. We face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for agreements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to proprietary technology. These competitors, either alone or with their customers, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. We also face competition from companies that provide production services. These include contract manufacturers, such as Lonza, Avid Bioservices, Inc., Diosynth Biotechnology, DSM N.V., Cangene Corporation and Goodwin Biotechnology Inc., and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that manufacture their own product candidates but can make extra capacity available to collaborators and customers, such as Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Biogen Idec Inc., ICOS Corporation, Abbott and Novartis AG. 40 We face uncertainty over reimbursement and healthcare reform, which, if determined adversely to us, could seriously hinder the market acceptance of our products. In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our product candidates will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third party payors, such as government health administration authorities, managed care providers and private health insurers. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Adequate third party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. In addition, domestic and foreign governments continue to propose and pass legislation designed to reduce the cost of healthcare, which could further limit reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. The failure of government and third party payors to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement rates for our product candidates could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products. The failure of our products to receive market acceptance would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience pressure to lower the prices of any prescription pharmaceutical products we are able to obtain approval for because of new and/or proposed federal legislation. Federal legislation, enacted in December 2003, has added an outpatient prescription drug benefit to Medicare, effective January 2006. In the interim, Congress has established a discount drug card program for Medicare beneficiaries. Both benefits will be provided primarily through private entities, which will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. These negotiations may increase pressures to lower prices. While the new law specifically prohibits the United States government from interfering in price negotiations between manufacturers and Medicare drug plan sponsors, some members of Congress are pursuing legislation that would permit the United States government to use its enormous purchasing power to demand discounts from pharmaceutical companies, thereby creating de facto price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, the new law contains triggers for Congressional consideration of cost containment measures for Medicare in the event Medicare cost increases exceed a certain level. These cost containment measures could include some sorts of limitations on prescription drug prices. The new legislation also modified the methodology used for reimbursement of physician administered and certain other drugs already covered under Medicare Part B. This new methodology would likely apply to certain of our products if and when commercialized. Experience with new reimbursement methodology is limited, and could be subject to change in the future. Our results of operations could be materially harmed by the different features of the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the potential effect of such legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay for our products and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Other Risks Related to Our Company The future growth and success of our business will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain our employees and consultants. For us to pursue our product development, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization plans, we will need to hire additional qualified scientific, manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance, sales, marketing and key management personnel. We may also need to hire personnel with expertise in clinical testing, government regulation, law and finance. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 41 We grant stock options as a method of attracting and retaining employees, to motivate performance and to align the interests of management with those of our stockholders. Due to fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock in recent years, a substantial portion of the stock options held by our employees have an exercise price that is higher than the current trading price of our common stock. We may elect to grant additional stock options at the current lower market price, pay higher cash compensation, or provide some combination of these alternatives to retain and attract qualified employees, but we cannot be sure that any of these actions would be successful. In addition, the issuance of additional stock options may be dilutive to existing stockholders. While we will continue to utilize our existing equity compensation plans to compensate employees, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel if we are unable to obtain stockholder approval for any new plan as may be required to keep equity compensation available. In addition, the expensing of stock options and other stock-based awards, which will be required commencing on January 1, 2006, will increase any net losses or decrease any net income recorded in any given period and could affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. As a result of these factors, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified personnel, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulty in the integration of any future acquisition with the operations of our business. We may from time to time seek to expand our business through corporate acquisitions. Our acquisition of companies and businesses and expansion of operations, involve risks such as the following: · the potential inability to identify target companies best suited to our business plan; · the potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and businesses and to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other expected value; · incurrence of expenses attendant to transactions that may or may not be consummated; and · difficulties in managing and coordinating operations at multiple venues, which, among other things, could divert our management’s attention from other important business matters. In addition, our past and future acquisitions of companies and businesses and expansion of operations may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt, U.S. or foreign tax liabilities, large one-time write-offs and the creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in amortization expense or other charges to expense. For example, we had recorded impairment charges totaling $25.0 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2005 and $17.2 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2004, related to technologies acquired through our acquisitions, respectively, of Abgenix Biopharma and IntraImmune in 2000 and Hesed Biomed in 2001. We have implemented a stockholder rights plan and are subject to other anti-takeover provisions, which could deter a party from effecting a takeover of us at a premium to our then-current stock price. In June 1999, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, which we amended and restated in November 1999 and May 2002, and amended in October 2003 and December 2005. The stockholder rights plan and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. This could affect the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws allow us to: · issue preferred stock without any vote or further action by the stockholders; · eliminate the right of stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting; 42 · specify procedures for director nominations by stockholders and submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings; and · eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors. In October 2003, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with AstraZeneca for the purpose of identifying and developing antibody products for use in oncology therapeutics. The collaboration agreement includes provisions that would allow AstraZeneca to accelerate its selection of target antigens and, in certain situations, terminate the collaboration agreement, or specific programs or activities conducted under it, in the event of a change in control in us, particularly if we were acquired by a competitor of AstraZeneca. In the event of a change in control of us, AstraZeneca could also acquire control over the development programs and various intellectual property rights in respect of antigens that are the subject of the collaboration agreement. This would result in a reduction in the royalties and milestones to be paid by AstraZeneca to us under the collaboration agreement and the release of AstraZeneca from certain exclusivity provisions. In addition, certain exclusivity provisions contained in the collaboration agreement would apply to an acquirer of our company and would restrict the acquirer’s ability to operate its business in the oncology field after the acquisition, except with respect to pre-existing development programs. These and other provisions of the collaboration agreement could make our company less attractive to a potential acquirer, particularly an acquirer that conducts or expects to conduct significant operations in the field of oncology therapeutics. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law which could also delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless the transaction meets certain conditions. The stockholder rights plan, the possible issuance of preferred stock, the procedures required for director nominations and stockholder proposals, our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca and Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. The provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, under the terms of the merger agreement, we will be required to pay a termination fee of $75,000,000 to Amgen if, among other things, our board of directors receives and accepts a superior proposal from a third party, solicits or encourages an acquisition proposal from a third party, fails to hold a stockholders’ meeting or the vote of our stockholders pursuant to the merger agreement or fails to recommend stockholder approval of the merger agreement, withdraws its recommendation, or after terminating the merger agreement the board of directors recommends that our stockholders approve any acquisition proposal other than the merger with Amgen if a bona fide acquisition proposal has been publicly announced and is consummated within twelve months of termination of the merger agreement. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance, and if we are held liable for an uninsured claim or a claim in excess of our insurance limits, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. The use of any of our product candidates, or of any products manufactured in our facility, in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products, may expose us to liability claims resulting from such use or sale. Consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling such products might make claims of this kind. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and production services activities, under which the coverage limits are $15.0 million per occurrence and $15.0 million in the aggregate. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If third parties bring a successful product liability claim or series of 43 claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our operations involve hazardous materials, and we could be held responsible for any damages caused by such materials. Our research and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. In addition, although we maintain insurance for harm to employees and to our facilities caused by hazardous materials, we do not insure against any other harm (including harm to the environment) caused by the use of hazardous materials on our premises. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, which may exceed our financial resources and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the growth and development of our business and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our stock price is highly volatile, and you may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock at a price greater than or equal to the price you paid for them. The market price and trading volume of our common stock are volatile, and may continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future. For example, during the period between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, our common stock closed as high as $21.68 per share and as low as $6.54 per share. This may impact your decision to buy or sell our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price include: · developments in our clinical trials and in clinical trials for potentially competitive product candidates; · our financial results; · fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us or our competitors; · published reports by securities analysts; · government regulation; · changes in reimbursement policies; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · announcements that we have entered into new collaboration, licensing or similar arrangements with new collaborators, or amendments of the terms of our existing collaborations; · developments in our relationship with customers; · public concern as to the safety and efficacy of our products; · general market conditions; and · the merger agreement with Amgen. 44 Available Information Our Internet address is http://www.abgenix.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Other than the information expressly set forth in this annual report, the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not incorporated into this annual report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 