Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to our Business We are dependent on the success of one or more of our current product candidates and we cannot be certain that any of them will receive regulatory approval or be commercialized. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our metabolic disease product candidates, CS-917, MB07803 and MB07811, and our liver disease product candidates, pradefovir and MB07133. Clinical trials conducted to date in patients treated with CS-917 and pradefovir have provided evidence of efficacy as measured by various parameters that we believe to be clinically and statistically significant. However, no pivotal, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials designed to provide clinical and statistically significant proof of efficacy, or to provide sufficient evidence of safety to justify approval, have been completed with any of our products. All of our product candidates will require additional development, clinical trials and regulatory clearances before they can be commercialized. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not necessarily mean later clinical trials will succeed. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs, either because our product candidates fail to be safe and effective in clinical trials or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue our product candidates through the clinical trial and approval processes. If any of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy at any time or during any phase of development, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of the product candidate. We do not anticipate that any of our current product candidates will be eligible to receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization for a number of years, if at all. Even if we were ultimately to receive regulatory approval for these product candidates, we and/or our partners, as applicable, may be unable to commercialize them successfully for a variety of reasons. These include, for example, the availability of alternative treatments, lack of cost effectiveness, the cost of manufacturing the product on a commercial scale and the effect of competition with other drugs. The success of our product candidates may also be limited by the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects. If we fail to commercialize one or more of our current product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain or maintain profitability, and our reputation in our industry and the investment community may be damaged. If clinical trials of our product candidates do not produce successful results, we and our commercialization collaborators, as applicable, will be unable to commercialize these products. To receive regulatory approval for the commercialization of our metabolic disease product candidates CS-917, MB07803 and MB07811, our liver disease product candidates pradefovir and MB07133, or any other product candidates that we may develop, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials must be conducted to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans to the satisfaction of the FDA, in the U.S. and other regulatory agencies elsewhere in the world. In order to support marketing approval, these agencies typically require successful results in one or more Phase 3 clinical trials, which our current product candidates have not yet reached and may never reach. Clinical testing is expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. Failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We may experience numerous 41 unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent commercialization of our current or future product candidates, including the following: · clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, · patient recruitment and enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, · costs of clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate, · our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects that delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use or market acceptance if approved, · collaborators who are responsible for clinical trials of our product candidates may not devote sufficient resources to these clinical trials or conduct them in a timely manner, or · we may face delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Our clinical experience with our product candidates is limited, and to date our product candidates have been tested in less than the number of patients that will likely need to be studied to gain regulatory approval. The data collected from clinical trials with larger patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of these product candidates. The targeted endpoints for clinical trials of CS-917 have been, and will continue to be, primarily established by Daiichi Sankyo. The targeted endpoints for clinical trials of pradefovir have been primarily established by Valeant and, in the future, will be primarily established by Schering-Plough. We are solely responsible for establishing the targeted endpoints for clinical trials of MB07803, MB07133 and MB07811. These targeted endpoints may be inadequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy levels required for regulatory approvals. Even if we believe data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies abroad. Further, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, and the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may interpret such data in different ways than us or our collaborators. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates would prevent our receipt of regulatory approval, and ultimately the commercialization of these product candidates. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization or have other significant adverse implications on our business. Prior to receiving regulatory approval, undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. For example, the inhibition of gluconeogenesis can cause elevated levels of lactic acid, or lactate, which, if high and sustained under certain conditions, could lead to lactic acidosis, a serious and potentially fatal condition. Certain preclinical animal studies have shown that CS-917 raises lactate levels two- to three-fold in some but not all animal models. Elevated lactate levels have also been observed in certain human clinical trials of CS-917. For example, in a 28-day Phase 2 clinical trial of CS-917, isolated instances of lactate elevation significantly above the normal range were seen in some patients in both CS-917 and placebo treated groups over the course of the 28 days. No patient exhibited sustained lactate levels significantly above the normal range over a period of consecutive days during the clinical trial. However, one patient who received 200 milligrams of CS-917 twice a day was withdrawn from the clinical trial by the 42 investigator on day 15 due to concerns over consistently elevated lactate levels measured the previous day. Other incidences of elevated lactate levels have been observed and will likely occur in the future. Our product candidates could also exhibit adverse interactions with other drugs. For instance, in March 2005 we were notified by Daiichi Sankyo that two serious adverse events involving lactic acidosis had occurred in two patients in a Phase 1 clinical trial evaluating the interaction of CS-917 with metformin. The serious adverse events were resolved after medical intervention. After the adverse events occurred, the three clinical trials that were ongoing at the time were stopped while one Phase 1 clinical trial which did not combine CS-917 with metformin continued and was completed. After extensive analysis Daiichi Sankyo concluded that the lactic acidosis observed in the two patients was likely due to significantly increased blood levels of metformin. The reason for the increase in metformin blood levels observed in these two patients has not been determined. At high blood levels, metformin is believed to cause a form of cellular toxicity known as mitochondrial toxicity which can cause lactic acidosis. Subsequently, Daiichi Sankyo decided that clinical trials of CS-917 could safely resume. Daiichi Sankyo has conducted and will likely conduct additional studies combining CS-917 with other diabetes drugs to assess both the safety and eventually the potential for enhanced efficacy with the combination. However, further use of CS-917 in combination with metformin will be avoided unless additional data suggests that the elevation of metformin blood levels as seen in the two patients can be avoided through patient exclusion or through the administration of CS-917 at lower doses or through other means. Should CS-917 eventually be approved and the use of CS-917 in combination with metformin remains an issue, the FDA may require additional measures be taken during marketing, such as prominent warning labels known as “black-box” warnings, physician education programs and/or other steps regarding concomitant use of CS-917 and metformin. In February 2006, we initiated Phase 1 clinical trials of our second-generation product candidate for type 2 diabetes, MB07803, which works by the same mechanism as CS-917 and thus may be subject to some or all of the same risks described previously for CS-917. It is also possible that CS-917 and MB07803 may cause other side effects. In certain preclinical studies, as expected based on the mechanism of these compounds, fasted animals treated with CS-917 showed pronounced hypoglycemia, a condition involving abnormally low blood glucose levels that can lead to coma or death. Hypoglycemia has been observed in one patient participating in a clinical trial that involved multi-day administration of the highest dose of CS-917 tested to date in patients (400 milligrams twice a day). This dose is above what is expected to be used in Phase 3 clinical trials if warranted. However, we cannot yet rule out the possibility that CS-917 may increase a patient’s susceptibility to hypoglycemia, including the potential for severe hypoglycemia, by inhibiting gluconeogenesis, especially in elderly patients who are already prone to develop this condition. Some rodent models of diabetes studied in preclinical trials of CS-917 demonstrated, at glucose lowering doses, increased levels of fat molecules known as triglycerides, which are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Elevated triglyceride levels have not been observed in human clinical trials to date. Other side effects observed during early clinical trials of CS-917 included nausea and vomiting. We apply our HepDirect technology to make liver-specific prodrugs of certain compounds. A prodrug is a drug to which a chemical modification has been made that renders it inactive until enzymes in the body convert it to its active form. When converted by the body to their active forms, HepDirect prodrugs produce a byproduct that is within a class of compounds that have the potential of causing toxicity, genetic mutations and cancer. We are unaware of any byproduct-related toxicities demonstrated to date in clinical trials of any of pradefovir, MB07133 or MB07811. However, we cannot be certain that this byproduct will not cause adverse effects in current or future clinical trials of these product candidates or other HepDirect prodrugs we may develop. In addition, because our current product candidates are in early stages of 43 development and have been tested in relatively small populations, additional side effects may be observed as their development progresses. MB07811 is a HepDirect prodrug of a potent TRß agonist discovered by us. Thyroid hormone and thyroid hormone mimetics are known to exhibit a wide array of physiological actions involving a variety of organs that can be assessed in preclinical animal studies. Both beneficial and undesirable effects can be inferred from studies of humans with hyperthyroidism (elevated thyroid hormone). The development of liver-selective thyroid receptor modulators for the treatment of hyperlipidemia is a novel approach seeking to exploit the beneficial hepatic effects while avoiding toxicities related to systemic exposure of thyromimetic agents. Successful development of MB07811 will require finding a dose range in humans that provides adequate benefit and an acceptable safety profile. In addition, undesirable side effects seen in the clinical trials of our product candidates may have other significant adverse implications on our business, for example: · we may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, · our stock price could decline, · our collaborators may ultimately terminate development of our partnered products, may further decide not to develop backup product candidates and may terminate our agreements, · if these agreements were terminated we may determine not to further develop the affected product candidates due to resource constraints and may not be able to establish additional collaborations for their further development on acceptable terms, if at all, · if we were to later continue the clinical trials of these product candidates and receive regulatory approval, earlier findings may significantly limit their marketability and thus significantly lower our potential future revenues from their sale, · we may be subject to product liability or stockholder litigation, and · we may be unable to attract and retain key employees. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: · regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product, or we may decide to cease marketing and sale of the product voluntarily, · we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials, change the labeling of the product, or change the product’s manufacturing facilities, and · our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. We are currently dependent on our collaborations with Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough for development of CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively, and events involving these collaborations, our collaborations with Merck and Idenix, or any future collaborations could prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates and achieving or sustaining profitability. We have entered into collaborations with Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough for the development and commercialization of CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively. Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough have 44 agreed to finance the clinical trials for CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively, and, if they are approved, manufacture and market them. Accordingly, we are currently dependent on Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough to gain FDA and other foreign regulatory agency approval of, and to commercialize, CS-917 and pradefovir. We have also entered into two collaborations with Merck and a collaboration with Idenix. The first collaboration with Merck seeks to develop and commercialize new products for the treatment of hepatitis C infection and the second seeks to develop and commercialize new products to treat several metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia and NASH. Our collaboration with Idenix seeks to develop and commercialize new products for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. Although our collaborations with Merck and Idenix have not yet yielded any product candidates, should they ultimately be successful, we will be dependent on Merck and/or Idenix, as applicable, for further development and commercialization of any resulting product candidates. In addition, since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize all of the potential products that may be based upon our technologies, including MB07803, MB07133 and MB07811, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of some or all of these product candidates. However, our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, or it may take longer than expected to establish new collaborations, leading to development and commercialization delays. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Daiichi Sankyo, Schering-Plough, Merck, Idenix or any future collaborators devote to our programs or potential products. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. In the event that one of our collaborations is terminated, and we believe that the continued development or commercialization of a product candidate or drug compound covered by the collaboration is warranted, we may seek to obtain rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate or drug compound, if we did not already have those rights. We would then determine whether to continue the development or commercialization of the product candidate or drug compound independently or together with a new collaborator. However, in the event that we do not have sufficient resources to independently develop or commercialize the product candidate or drug compound, and we cannot establish a new collaboration on acceptable terms, we would be forced to discontinue its development or commercialization. Our agreement with Daiichi Sankyo contains certain rights and restrictions regarding our access to and use of confidential data and information generated by Daiichi Sankyo. We have initiated clinical trials of MB07803, a second-generation gluconeogenesis inhibitor that may be a direct competitor to CS-917. Because of this competitive situation and with our consent, the transfer to us of confidential information and data related to CS-917 from Daiichi Sankyo has already been reduced and we expect that further reductions in information flow will occur. This situation may limit our ability to (i) provide information regarding clinical results unless they are publicly released by Daiichi Sankyo, (ii) influence decisions made at Daiichi Sankyo regarding CS-917 and (iii) accurately track Daiichi Sankyo’s diligence on the development program. In addition, the past and/or any future transfer to us of confidential information and data related to CS-917 may increase the risk of claims based on our access to this information and data. It is possible that Daiichi Sankyo could challenge our rights to independently develop second generation gluconeogenesis inhibitors, including MB07803, which may delay or prevent the development, partnering and/or commercialization of such product candidates. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products or drug compounds covered by our present and future collaborations if: · we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements, 45 · we are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or proprietary technologies we discover in our collaborations, · we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations, · our potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions, · our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors, · we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our product candidates, · we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators, · consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential collaborators, or · we are unable to negotiate additional collaboration agreements under terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to develop or commercialize our products as a result of the occurrence of any of these events, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. Because our collaborations with Merck may involve Merck’s proprietary compounds, if Merck terminates development of product candidates we may not have the right to pursue development of these product candidates on our own. The objective of our hepatitis C collaboration with Merck has been to discover product candidates for the treatment of this disease by applying our technology to certain compounds provided by Merck. The funded research phase of this collaboration has ended. Merck has evaluated and may continue to evaluate the drug compounds discovered under the research phase of the collaboration to determine if one or more will be recommended for clinical development. If Merck so designates a product candidate and then subsequently terminates this collaboration before a defined stage of development of that product candidate, which it may do without cause at any time upon 90 days’ advance written notice to us, we will not have any right to develop or commercialize that product candidate. In addition, if this collaboration with Merck terminates and Merck successfully develops products based on these proprietary compounds without applying our technology, we will not be entitled to milestone payments or royalties with respect to those products. Our agreement with Merck to develop and commercialize new products to treat several metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia and NASH may include the development of compounds owned or controlled by Merck. Accordingly, if Merck terminates this collaboration it may prove difficult for us to continue development of such compounds. Similarly, our agreement with Idenix to develop and commercialize new products to treat hepatitis C infection may include the development of compounds owned or controlled by Idenix. Accordingly, if Idenix terminates this collaboration it may prove difficult for us to continue development of such compounds. 46 Conflicts may arise between us and any of our collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with Daiichi Sankyo, Schering-Plough, Merck, Idenix or any future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability: · unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay us research funding, milestone payments or royalties we believe are due to us under our collaboration agreement, · uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations or independently pursuing the development and/or commercialization of product candidates, or disagreements with our collaborators regarding the protection of intellectual property rights, · unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities, or · slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates. Our efforts to discover product candidates beyond our current product candidates may not succeed, and any product candidates we recommend for clinical development may not actually begin clinical trials. We intend to use our proprietary technologies and our knowledge and expertise to develop and commercialize novel drugs to address some of the world’s most widespread and costly chronic diseases. Our goal is to expand our clinical development pipeline by continuing to develop and move additional new drug compounds into clinical development. However, the process of researching and discovering drug compounds is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable. Data from our current research programs may not support the clinical development of our lead compounds or other compounds from these programs, and we may not identify any additional drug compounds suitable for recommendation for clinical development. Moreover, any drug compounds we recommend for clinical development may not demonstrate, through preclinical testing, indications of safety and potential efficacy, that such drug compounds warrant advancement into clinical trials. Such findings would potentially impede our ability to maintain or expand our clinical development pipeline. Our ability to identify new drug compounds and advance them into clinical development also depends upon our ability to fund our research and development operations, and we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays related to: · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial, 47 · reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites, · manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct the clinical trial, · obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, · recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial, and · the failure of our collaborators to adequately resource our product candidates due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: · failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols, · inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, · unforeseen safety issues, or · lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience significant delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing, our product development costs may increase, we may lose any competitive advantage associated with early market entry and our ability to generate significant revenues may be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully meet their obligations under our agreements, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough are currently responsible for conducting clinical trials of CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively. Although our collaborations with Merck and Idenix have not yet yielded product candidates, should they be successful, we will be dependent on Merck and/or Idenix, as applicable, to conduct clinical trials of any resulting product candidates. We intend to rely on other third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials of MB07803, MB07133, MB07811 and any other product candidates that we may develop for which a collaborator is not responsible for clinical development. If Daiichi Sankyo, Schering-Plough, Merck, Idenix or these other third parties do not successfully meet their obligations under our agreements, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to clinical protocols or for other reasons, clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and these product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Because our product candidates, research programs and collaborative efforts depend on our proprietary technologies, adverse events affecting our proprietary technologies may delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We used our NuMimetic technology to identify CS-917 and MB07803. We used our HepDirect technology to discover pradefovir, MB07133, MB07811 and have applied it in certain other programs as well. We intend to use these and future proprietary technologies to expand our product pipeline in the future. We also may leverage our HepDirect and other liver-targeting technology through strategic alliances and collaborations with other companies, such as our hepatitis C collaborations with Merck and 48 Idenix in which we are applying our technology to certain Merck and Idenix compounds. Our proprietary technologies are subject to many of the same risks as our product candidates, including risks related to: · obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for these technologies, · avoiding infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties, · the development of competing technologies by others, and · in HepDirect’s case, the safety and effectiveness of this technology in humans. Because certain of our product candidates and research programs are dependent on our proprietary technologies, adverse events affecting our proprietary technologies may in turn delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability. Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. In the U.S., neither we, nor our collaborators, are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of an NDA from the FDA or receive similar approvals abroad. The process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. In addition, as a company, we have not previously filed NDAs with the FDA or filed similar applications with other foreign regulatory agencies. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA or other foreign regulatory agency approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our product candidates for which development and commercialization is our responsibility. Despite the time and expense invested, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: · a product candidate may not be safe and effective, · FDA or other foreign regulatory agency officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient, · the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may not approve of our third-party manufacturers’ processes or facilities, or · the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, these approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Even if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, our product candidates may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. If any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidates or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual 49 review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA and other foreign regulatory agency requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: · issue warning letters or other notices of possible violations, · impose civil or criminal penalties or seek disgorgement of revenue or profits, · suspend regulatory approval, · suspend any ongoing clinical trials, · refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators, · impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements, or · seize or detain products or require a product recall. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks regarding FDA approval in the U.S. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse impact regarding FDA approval in the U.S., including the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we and our collaborators fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we and our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If our competitors have products that are approved faster, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition from many different sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Due to the high demand for treatments for liver and metabolic diseases, research is intense and new treatments are being sought out and developed by our competitors. We are aware of many competitive products currently marketed or under development that are used to treat some of the diseases we have targeted. If CS-917 and/or MB07803 are ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, these products may compete for market share with established 50 therapies from a number of competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies. Such marketed products include, but are not limited to the following classes: · metformin—a member of the biguanide drug class, related to guanidine and currently is the most widely prescribed first line therapy for type 2 diabetes, · sulfonylureas—increase the secretion of insulin by the pancreas, thereby lowering the level of the sugar glucose in the blood, · insulins—mimic insulin, the naturally occurring hormone made by the pancreas to control blood glucose levels, · PPARs—improve insulin sensitivity by activating certain genes involved in fat synthesis and carbohydrate metabolism, · incretin mimetics—lower glucose levels by increasing the levels of certain naturally occurring hormones from the pancreas, including glucagon-like peptide-1 or GLP-1, a peptide that facilitates the response of the pancreas and liver to fluctuations in glucose levels by its action on pancreatic beta and alpha cells. Compounds in this class include dipeptidyl peptidase IV or DPP-IV inhibitors, and BYETTA ® (exenatide) injection. DPP-IV is an enzyme in the bloodstream that cleaves and inactivates GLP-1. Inhibition of DPP-IV thus increases the half-life of endogenous GLP-1 by preventing cleavage and inactivation of GLP-1. BYETTA is an injectable medication that exhibits many of the same glucose regulating actions of GLP-1. The overall effect of these compounds is to enhance glucose-dependent insulin secretion and suppress inappropriate glucagon secretion, · alpha-glucosidase inhibitors—decrease the absorption of carbohydrates from the intestine, resulting in a slower and lower rise in blood glucose throughout the day, · glinides—stimulate the pancreas’ beta-cells to produce insulin, and · combination therapies—combines metformin with members of several of the above-mentioned classes, particularly sulfonylureas and PPARs. Metformin is a drug that inhibits liver glucose production like CS-917 and MB07803 but does so through an unknown mechanism. Because it does not cause weight gain, metformin is often prescribed as a first line therapy to obese patients with type 2 diabetes, who are reported to comprise more than 90% of patients newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. Generic forms of metformin have recently become available. Accordingly, unless CS-917 and MB07803 demonstrate significant benefits when compared to metformin or demonstrate that they can be used in the patient population who do not tolerate and/or adequately respond to metformin treatment, the price required to effectively compete with the generic form of metformin may be so low that it becomes uneconomical to market CS-917 or MB07803. Moreover, if the combination of CS-917 with metformin is contraindicated for safety reasons the market potential of CS-917 could be reduced and/or selling expenses could be increased. Should CS-917 eventually be approved and combination with metformin remains an issue, the FDA may require additional measures be taken during marketing, such as prominent warning labels known as “black-box” warnings, physician education programs and/or other steps to restrict concomitant use of CS-917 and metformin. In addition, many companies are developing novel therapies that target diabetes. These companies may develop and introduce products competitive with or superior to CS-917 and/or MB07803. 51 If pradefovir is ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, it may compete for market share with established therapies from a number of competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies. Such marketed products include, but are not limited to the following classes: · interferons—mimic interferon, the naturally occurring infection-fighting immune substance produced by the body, · nucleoside analogues—chemically engineered nucleoside compounds that are converted inside cells into other compounds that are structurally similar to the building blocks of DNA and RNA that interfere with the replication of HBV, and · nucleotide analogues—chemically engineered nucleotide compounds that are converted inside cells into other compounds that are structurally similar to the building blocks of DNA and RNA that interfere with the replication of HBV. A competitor to pradefovir may be Hepsera (adefovir dipivoxil), which is a nucleotide analogue currently marketed in the U.S. and Europe by Gilead Sciences, Inc. Pradefovir and Hepsera are prodrugs of the same active drug, and therefore may directly compete. In order to effectively compete with Hepsera, pradefovir may have to be significantly more beneficial or less expensive than Hepsera. In addition, marketed products approved to treat HIV infections are being evaluated for their effectiveness in treating hepatitis B infections. There are no currently approved drugs for primary liver cancer. However, some companies are developing novel therapies specifically for primary liver cancer. Nexavar (sorafenib), a chemotherapy approved for the treatment of kidney cancer, is being evaluated for the treatment of primary liver cancer. The drug’s developer, Bayer, recently announced that an ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial of Nexavar for the treatment of primary liver cancer was stopped early because the trial met its primary endpoint resulting in superior overall survival in those patients receiving Nexavar tablets versus those patients receiving placebo. Therefore it is likely that Nexavar will be approved for the treatment of patients with primary liver cancer and it is expected that it will experience significant off-label use prior to its approval. In addition, companies are developing therapies for other solid tumors which may be efficacious in treating primary liver cancer. These companies may develop and introduce products competitive with or superior to MB07133. If MB07811 is ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, it would compete with products marketed by several large pharmaceutical companies that currently comprise a large share of the hyperlipidemia market. Major classes of hyperlipidemia drugs include, but are not limited to: · statins—reduce serum cholesterol levels by inhibiting a key enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol, · fibrates—reduce the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides (fatty substances) in blood, · nicotinic acid derivatives—lower cholesterol, triglycerides and low density lipoproteins and increase high density lipoproteins, · CAIs—inhibit the absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol, · bile acid sequestrants—bind with cholesterol-containing bile acids in the intestines and remove them in bowel movements, and · statin combination therapies—combine statins with members of the above-mentioned classes, particularly CAIs. Several large pharmaceutical companies are also developing novel therapies that target hyperlipidemia. These companies may develop and introduce products competitive with or superior to 52 MB07811. Lipitor (atorvastatin; a statin marketed by Pfizer) is currently the best selling prescription medicine. In addition, generic statins (cholesterol-reducers) have recently been approved in the major pharmaceutical markets and would also compete with MB07811. In addition, many other companies are developing products for the treatment of the diseases we are targeting and if successful, these products could compete with our products. If we receive approval to market and sell any of our product candidates, we may compete with these companies and their products as well as others in varying stages of development. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and therapies that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any which we are developing, or that would render our product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain supply relationships with collaborators or other third-party manufacturers, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products. Our ability to develop and commercialize our products depends in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other third parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for clinical trials and eventual commercialization. Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough are currently responsible for all clinical and commercial manufacturing of CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively. We have relied on a number of suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of MB07803, MB07133 and MB07811 for use in our current clinical trials. Although our suppliers have manufactured other companies’ products on a commercial scale, we have not yet determined if they are capable of manufacturing our products on a commercial scale. We, our collaborators and third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required to manufacture our product candidates, resulting in delays in our clinical trials and regulatory submissions, in the commercialization of our product candidates or, if any of our product candidates is approved, in the recall or withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, development of large-scale manufacturing processes may require additional validation studies, which the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies must review and approve. Our inability to enter into or maintain agreements with collaborators or capable third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We currently expect that in any future clinical trials of MB07803, MB07133 and MB07811, we will rely on our current suppliers to manufacture these compounds. However, we do not have long-term supply agreements with these third parties, and we may not be able to enter into new supply agreements with them in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all. These third parties may also be subject to capacity constraints that would cause them to limit the amount of these compounds that we can purchase. While we believe alternative sources to manufacture these compounds are readily available, in the event we have to seek such alternative sources we will incur costs associated with identifying and qualifying one or more alternate suppliers. In addition, any resulting interruption or delay we experience in the supply of MB07803, MB07133 or MB07811 may impede the clinical trials of these compounds. 53 In addition, we, our collaborators or other third-party manufacturers of our products must comply with current good manufacturing practices, or CGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies through their facilities inspection programs. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. In addition, product manufacturing facilities in California are subject to licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services and may be inspected by the California Department of Health Services, and other applicable regulatory authorities, at any time. We, our collaborators or other third-party manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these CGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. We do not have a sales and marketing organization, and we have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Daiichi Sankyo and Schering-Plough are currently responsible for worldwide marketing and commercialization for CS-917 and pradefovir, respectively, although we have an option to co-promote CS-917 in North America with Daiichi Sankyo. Although our hepatitis C and metabolic disease collaborations with Merck have not yet yielded product candidates, should they be successful, Merck will be responsible for worldwide marketing and commercialization of any resulting product candidates (subject to, in the case of our metabolic disease collaboration, our option to co-promote the product in the U.S. with certain financial assistance from Merck). Similarly, should our hepatitis C collaboration with Idenix be successful, Idenix will be responsible for worldwide marketing and commercialization of any resulting product candidates. In order to co-promote any of these products, or to commercialize MB07803, MB07133, MB07811 or any future product candidates, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with a third party to perform these services. Even though we may receive financial assistance from Merck if we exercise our U.S. co-promotion option under the metabolic disease collaboration, developing a sales force for any resulting product or any product resulting from any of our other product candidates is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating sufficient demand for our product candidates. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with collaborators or other third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our product candidates. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenues and may not become profitable. The commercial success of our product candidates depends upon their market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, · relative convenience and ease of administration, · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects, 54 · restrictions on use in combination with other products, · availability of alternative treatments, · pricing and cost effectiveness, · effectiveness of our or our partners’ sales and marketing strategy, and · our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If approved, CS-917 may have to be administered several times daily. Additionally, it may result in variable drug levels in different patient populations, which could complicate its use and limit its marketability. Since CS-917 is eliminated from the body through the kidney, it may be of limited use in type 2 diabetes patients with kidney dysfunction. In addition, CS-917 and HepDirect prodrugs such as pradefovir, MB07133 and MB07811 may also exhibit interactions with other marketed drugs that could limit their combination with those drugs. Serious adverse events observed in early 2005 in a Phase 1 clinical trial of CS-917 in combination with metformin have raised questions about the safety of the potential use of CS-917 and metformin in combination. Therefore, even if CS-917 receives regulatory approval, its combination with metformin may be restricted which may reduce its market potential. In addition, various risk management strategies may be required to minimize inadvertent use with metformin including prominent warning labels known as “black-box” warnings, physician education programs and/or other steps designed to more tightly control the sale and use of CS-917. Such strategies and programs, if required, will likely adversely impact the sales of CS-917 and may incur additional selling expenses thereby reducing profits. While MB07803 has not demonstrated the same metformin interaction risk in clinical trials to date, it may exhibit the same metformin interaction risk and thus may be subject to the same market potential limitations as CS-917. In addition, primarily because the number of treatable patients in the U.S. with primary liver cancer is relatively small, we expect to market MB07133, if approved, at a relatively high price in the U.S. in order to generate sufficient revenues to recoup our costs and provide a return on our investment. This could limit or prevent us from achieving the market acceptance of MB07133 in the U.S. The number of treatable patients outside of the U.S. is much larger than the number of treatable patients in the U.S. However, because third party reimbursement in many of these countries is uncertain, we may be unable to recoup our costs or generate sufficient returns on our investment in these countries. If any of our product candidates is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from this product candidate and we may not become or remain profitable. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates, could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: · our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, · our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability, · the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators, and · the availability of capital. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. In the U.S., given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the 55 implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other similar proposals will be adopted. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors including state governments are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. Since we became an independent company in 1999, we have increased the number of our full-time employees from 50 to 127 as of March 1, 2007. We may need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development and collaborative activities, and commercialize our product candidates. It is possible that our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of the services of certain principal members of our management or scientific staff could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We employ these individuals on an “at-will” basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice, subject to the terms of their stock restriction agreements and severance agreements. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. We will need to hire additional personnel as we establish and/or expand our sales, manufacturing, research and development activities in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other companies. We have established a scientific advisory board, the members of which assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our scientific advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. 56 We have limited experience in identifying, completing and integrating acquisition targets, and if we do not successfully integrate any future acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs and disruptions to our business. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a broad pipeline of product candidates. In addition to our internal drug development efforts, we may seek to expand our product pipeline, at the appropriate time and as resources allow, by acquiring products or businesses or in-licensing technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business and complement our existing product candidates and research programs. Future acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks including: · exposure to unknown liabilities, · disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to developing acquired products or technologies, · incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions, · higher than expected acquisition and integration costs, · increased amortization expenses, · difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel, · impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership, and · inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. We have limited experience in identifying acquisition targets, successfully completing potential acquisitions and integrating any acquired products, businesses or technologies into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Risks Related to our Finances and Capital Requirements We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred net losses from our inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $108.2 million. We expect to increase our operating expenses over the next several years as we continue and expand our research and development activities, including conducting clinical trials for our product candidates and further developing our product pipeline, acquiring or in-licensing products, technologies or businesses, and funding other working capital and general corporate purposes. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We currently lack a significant continuing revenue source and may not become or remain profitable. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends upon our ability to generate continuing revenues. To date, our product candidates and strategic collaborations have not generated any significant revenues, other than one-time or time-limited payments associated with our collaborations such as milestone payments and option fees. Our ability to generate significant continuing revenues depends on a number of factors, including: · successful completion of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates, 57 · achievement of regulatory approval for our product candidates, · successful completion of our current and future strategic collaborations, and · successful sales, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of our products. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years. If we are unable to eventually generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become or remain profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts and affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least the next twelve months. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years, if at all, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. Our additional funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: · the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities, · the scope, prioritization and number of clinical development and research programs we pursue, · the costs of expanding our operations, · the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish, · the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, · the costs and timing of regulatory approvals, · the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities, · the effect of competing technological and market developments, and · the extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, if ever, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, grants or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or our commercialization efforts and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements will cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, our committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, debt financings, grants or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. For example, we have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission which allows us to issue shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock for an aggregate initial offering price of up to $75 million. To date, we have sold approximately $40 million of our common stock under this registration statement. We have also filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the resale 58 of shares issuable under the CEFF though to date, no shares have been issued under this registration statement. We may sell additional securities from time to time in one or more offerings in amounts, at prices and on terms that we will determine at the time of the offering. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, pursuant to our effective shelf registration statement or otherwise, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our quarterly operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: · the development status of our product candidates, including results of our clinical trials, · our recommendation of additional drug compounds for clinical development, · our addition or termination of research programs or funding support, · variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or research programs, · our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements, and · changes in the use assumptions or the use of different valuation methods in the application of SFAS No. 123R in future periods. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In November 2006, we entered into the CEFF with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of 36 months, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $50.0 million, subject to specified conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless specified conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; and the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF. In addition, among other termination rights, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF by providing written notice to us within 10 business days after it obtains actual knowledge that an event has occurred resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, properties or financial condition (subject to specified exceptions, including conditions or events that are reasonably expected to occur in the ordinary course of our business). If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if Kingsbridge terminates the CEFF, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. 59 We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a “blackout” notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of this prospectus and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under this prospectus for a certain period of time. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the registration statement of which this prospectus is a part is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our registration rights agreement with Kingsbridge, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of a specified number of shares held by Kingsbridge immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our stock price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining stock price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our stock price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our stock price. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, including the proprietary technologies and compounds used in our business. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and/or trade secret protection of our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, as well as successfully defending any patents that issue against third-party challenges. We may only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The filing, prosecution and defense of patents at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. We may be particularly affected by this because we expect that pradefovir and MB07133, if approved, will be marketed in foreign countries with high incidences of HBV and primary liver cancer, respectively. Decisions or actions regarding patent filing and/or changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Decisions or actions regarding patent filing are complex and we may not be successful in protecting our products from competition. Patent positions for products are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions which may ultimately be decided to the detriment of our products’ competitive positions’ in the U.S. and these other countries. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes in the U.S. and these other countries, and may not be able to obtain patents from pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed in the U.S. and these other countries, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Any patents or patent rights that we obtain in the U.S. and other countries may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. In addition, we are dependent on outside patent firms for advice and action regarding our efforts to secure patents. Should these firms fail to take appropriate action to secure or enforce our patents in a timely manner, or should they provide us with incorrect or inappropriate advice it could be detrimental to our patent positions. 60 Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents in the U.S. and other countries. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: · we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents, · we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions, · others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies, · it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, · our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties, · our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable, · we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, or · the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into proprietary information and inventions agreements with our employees and consultants and entering into confidentiality agreements with other third parties to whom we disclose our proprietary information, third parties may still obtain this information without our knowledge and consent. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect this information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. We have not conducted a complete search of existing patents to identify existing patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may inadvertently infringe. We may be exposed to future litigation by the companies holding these patents or other third parties based on claims that our product candidates and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. In addition, while we are not currently subject to pending litigation nor are we aware of any threatened litigation, third parties may contact us or our collaborators in the ordinary course of 61 business to bring certain patents to our attention. We and our collaborators evaluate all such communications on a case-by-case basis to assess whether such patents cover our product candidates or proprietary technologies and if so, whether to seek a license from such third parties. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe on its technology, we may face a number of issues, including: · infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business, · substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, as well as damages for products developed using allegedly infringing drug discovery tools or methods, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, · a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do, · if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology, and · redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. We have conducted searches of U.S. and foreign patents, but cannot guarantee that the searches were comprehensive and therefore whether any of our product candidates or the methods of using, making or identifying our product candidates infringe the patents searched, or that other patents do not exist that cover our product candidates or these methods. There may also be pending patent applications that are unknown to us and may prevent us from marketing our product candidates. Other product candidates that we may develop, either internally or in collaboration with others, could be subject to similar delays and uncertainties. Existing patents and patent applications covering adefovir or prodrugs of adefovir in the U.S. and foreign countries may prevent the commercialization of pradefovir in the future. Our product candidate pradefovir is a prodrug of adefovir. A third party, Gilead, has rights to another product called Hepsera that is a non-liver specific prodrug of adefovir. We are aware of third party patents and patent applications in the U.S. and in European and other foreign countries with claims to prodrugs of adefovir. These patents are scheduled to expire in September 2011 overseas and in 2014 in the U.S. Although we do not believe that any valid claim covers pradefovir, we cannot guarantee this. If it is determined that patent claims are valid and cover pradefovir, we may not be able to commercialize pradefovir in such countries, including those in Europe. Further, we are aware that a patent term extension of one of these prodrug patents has been granted in multiple European countries based on the regulatory approval of Hepsera thereby extending protection of Hepsera in those countries to September 2016. Additional third party patents covering Hepsera or adefovir may exist, and may expire later than our expected date of regulatory approval in the country where the patent is in force. Risks Related to Other Legal Matters We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological agents and radioactive isotopes and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we 62 store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We currently contract with a third party to dispose of these materials and wastes. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may also incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations adopted in the future. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. For example, in March 2005 two cases of lactic acidosis were observed in a clinical trial combining CS-917 with metformin. As a result, unless further data changes the situation, the combination of CS-917 and metformin is contraindicated and the inadvertent combination of the drugs could put patients at risk for lactic acidosis. Therefore, even if CS-917 receives regulatory approval the FDA may require that additional measures be taken during marketing, such as prominent warning labels known as “black-box” warnings, physician education programs and/or other steps to restrict concomitant use of metformin and CS-917. However, none of these programs can be assured of eliminating the possibility of the inadvertent use of CS-917 with metformin and the consequent risk of lactic acidosis. Therefore, these programs may not effectively protect us from a liability claim. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our product candidates, · injury to our reputation, · withdrawal of clinical trial participants, · costs of related litigation, · substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants, · loss of revenues, and · the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, up to an annual aggregate limit of $10 million. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. While our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination, we 63 do carry separate pollution legal liability coverage that is intended to cover third party claims for bodily injury, property damage and remediation costs. However, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our insurance and/or resources. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in our Common Stock Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: · changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including the status and results of our clinical trials, · events affecting Daiichi Sankyo, Schering-Plough, Merck, Idenix or any future collaborators, · announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors, · regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries, · fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies, · variations in our quarterly operating results, · changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance, · changes in accounting principles, · issuances of new equity securities by us, pursuant to our effective shelf registration statement or otherwise, · sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders, · additions or departures of key personnel, and · discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. 64 We may incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, have resulted in increased costs to us which are likely to continue and may further increase as we continue to evaluate the implications of these laws and regulations and respond to their requirements. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. Investor confidence and share value may be adversely impacted if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with the attestation of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with this annual report on Form 10-K we are required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on our management’s assessment. How companies are implementing these requirements including internal control reforms, if any, and how independent auditors are applying these requirements and testing internal controls, remain subject to some uncertainty. In addition, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. If, during any year, our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated, tested or assessed, or if our independent auditors interpret the applicable requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, beneficially owned approximately 68% of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. A large portion of our shares are held by a small number of persons and investment funds. In addition, these persons and funds hold warrants to purchase 4,057,176 shares of common stock that, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. Moreover, several of our stockholders and warrant holders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the unregistered shares they currently hold or may acquire upon exercise of warrants, 65 or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Under the CEFF, Kingsbridge is committed to purchase up to $50 million of our common stock over a 36 month period. Sales by these current and potential future stockholders or warrant holders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 