Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. Risks Relating to Our Business Our business is in transition from a business reliant primarily on narrowband connectivity to one reliant primarily on broadband connectivity and services, and if we are unable to effectively manage this transition our business will be impaired. Historically we have generated the large majority of our revenues from the sale of enterprise connectivity services using narrowband technologies such as modem dial-up. For example, in 2005 we derived $138.1 million, or 82%, of our total revenues from our traditional dial-up business. In the United States as well as many other countries, the use of narrowband as a primary means of enterprise connectivity has declined and is expected to continue to decline at an accelerated rate over time as broadband access technologies, such as cable modem, DSL, Wi-Fi and other wireless technologies, including 3G, become more broadly used. In response to this market shift we have added broadband and services elements to our business and, as a result, in 2006 our revenue derived from the use of narrowband connectivity decreased to $105.7 million or 57.9% of our revenue, and in the fourth quarter of 2006 had decreased to less than 50% of our revenue. Because of the declining revenues associated with narrowband connectivity, the growth of our business will depend upon our ability to expand the broadband and services elements of our business at a pace faster than our narrowband connectivity business declines. In February 2006, we acquired GoRemote Internet Communications, Inc. as part of our strategy to grow our broadband business, and are also developing additional broadband products and services internally. To grow our broadband business, we must continue to develop relationships with many providers on terms commercially acceptable to us in order to provide adequate coverage for our customers’ mobile workers and to expand our broadband coverage. We may also be required to develop or acquire additional technologies in order to integrate new broadband and security services into our service offering. If we are unable to develop these relationships or develop or acquire new technologies, or if demand for broadband access does not materially increase, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. In addition, if broadband service providers consolidate, our negotiating leverage with providers may decrease, resulting in increased rates for access or no access, which could harm our operating results. We face strong competition in our market, which could make it difficult for us to grow our business. We compete primarily with facilities-based carriers as well as with non-facilities-based software enabled network operators. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories or greater name recognition than we have. Also, as a result of our provision of policy management services, we face competition from companies that provide security and policy-based services and software. In addition, we face the following challenges from our competitors: Many of our competitors can compete on price. Because many of our facilities-based competitors own and operate physical networks, there may be little incremental cost for them to provide additional hotspot or telephone connections. As a result, they may offer remote access services at little additional cost, and may be willing to discount or subsidize remote access services to capture other sources of revenue. In contrast, we have traditionally purchased network access from facilities-based network service providers to enable our remote access service. As a result, large carriers may sell their remote access services at a lower price. In addition, new non-facilities-based carriers may enter our market and compete on price. In either case, we may lose business or be forced to lower our prices to compete, which could reduce our revenues and operating margins. Many of our competitors offer additional services that we do not, which enables them to compete favorably against us. Some of our competitors provide services that we do not, such as local exchange and long distance services. Potential customers that desire these services on a bundled basis may choose to obtain remote access and policy management services from the competitor that provides these additional services. Our potential customers may have other business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large facilities-based carriers that purchase substantial amounts of products and services, or provide other services or goods unrelated to remote access services. As a result, if a potential customer is also a supplier to one of our large competitors, or purchases unrelated services or goods from our competitor, the potential customer may be motivated to purchase its remote access services from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance its business relationship with that competitor. 13 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s internal network, our virtual network may be perceived as not being secure and enterprises may curtail or stop using our services. It is imperative for our customers that access to their mission critical data is secure. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the security measures that we have engineered into our network for the authentication of the end user’s credentials; a key component in this regard is our policy management services. These measures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to our customers’ networks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our services, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. To date, we have not experienced any significant security breaches to our network. Our customers require a high degree of reliability in our services and, if we cannot meet their expectations, demand for our services will decline. Any failure to provide reliable network access, uninterrupted operation of our network and software infrastructure, or a satisfactory experience for our customers and their mobile workers, whether or not caused by our own failure, could cause current and potential customers to obtain connectivity services from our competitors, which would reduce demand for our services. If enterprise connectivity demand does not continue to expand, our revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted. The growth of our business is dependent, in part, upon the increased use of enterprise connectivity services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. If the demand for enterprise connectivity services does not continue to grow, then we may not be able to grow our business, improve our operating results or meet public market expectations. Increased usage of enterprise connectivity services depends on numerous factors, including: • the willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures; • the availability of security products necessary to ensure data privacy over the public networks; • the quality, cost and functionality of these services and competing services; • the increased adoption of wired and wireless broadband access methods; and • the proliferation of electronic devices and related applications. If we are unable to meet the challenges related to the market acceptance and provision of our policy management services, our ability to grow the business may be harmed. The growth of our business depends in part upon our ability of our policy management services to achieve and sustain expected levels of demand and market acceptance. If enterprises do not perceive our policy management services to have significant benefits, then we will be unable to grow this aspect of our business, or it will grow more slowly than we expect, either of which could significantly and adversely affect our growth. Key challenges that we face related to our provision of these services include: • the risk that we may encounter unexpected technical and other difficulties in further developing our policy management services, which could delay or prevent the enhancement of these services or certain features of these services; • the risk that the rate of adoption by enterprises of network security software or integrated secure connectivity solutions will not be as we anticipate, which if slow would reduce or eliminate the purchase of these services; and • the risk that security breaches may occur, notwithstanding the use of our policy management services, by hackers that develop new methods of avoiding security software. If we do not adequately address these challenges, our growth and operating results may be negatively impacted. Our long sales and service deployment cycles require us to incur substantial sales costs that may not result in related revenues. Our business is characterized by a long sales cycle between the time a potential customer is contacted and a customer contract is signed. Once a customer contract is signed, there is typically an extended period before the customer’s end users actually begin to use our services, which is when we begin to realize revenues. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer which may not result in any revenues. Even if we enter into a contract, we will have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales increase, we are not successful in our sales efforts, or we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed. 14 Table of Contents There are approximately 26 countries in which we provide dial-up access only through Equant. The loss of Equant as a dial-up network service provider would substantially diminish our ability to deliver global network access. In approximately 24 countries, our sole dial-up network service provider is Equant. Network usage from access within these countries accounted for less than 2% of our revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. If we lose access to Equant’s network and are unable to replace this access in some or all of these countries, our ability to market our services as being global would be impaired, which could cause us to lose customers. If Equant were to cease operations or terminate its arrangements with us, we would be required to enter into arrangements with other dial-up network service providers, which may not be available. This process could be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to enter into these arrangements on terms acceptable to us. The telecommunications industry has experienced a dramatic decline, which may cause consolidation among network service providers and impair our ability to provide reliable, redundant service coverage and negotiate favorable network access terms. The telecommunications industry has experienced dramatic technological change and increased competition that have led to significant declines in network access pricing. Service providers have consolidated and may continue to consolidate, which may continue to reduce the number of network service providers from which we are able to obtain network access. As this occurs, while we expect that we will still be able to maintain operations and provide enterprise connectivity services with a small number of network service providers, we would potentially not be able to provide sufficient redundant access points in some geographic areas, which could diminish our ability to provide broad, reliable, redundant coverage. Further, our ability to negotiate favorable access rates from network service providers could be impaired, which could increase our network access expenses and harm our operating results. If our channel partners do not successfully market our services to their customers or corporate end users, then our revenues and business may be adversely affected. We sell our services directly through our sales force and indirectly through our channel partners, which include network service providers, systems integrators and value added resellers. Our business depends on the efforts and the success of these channel partners in marketing our services to their customers. Our own ability to promote our services directly to their customers is often limited. Many of our channel partners may offer services to their customers that may be similar to, or competitive with, our services. Therefore, these channel partners may be reluctant to promote our services. If our channel partners fail to market our services effectively, our ability to grow our revenue would be reduced and our business will be impaired. If we fail to address evolving standards and technological changes in the enterprise connectivity and policy management services industry, our business could be harmed. The market for enterprise connectivity and policy management services is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and rapid technological change, including new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems. In developing and introducing our services, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which features, security standards, performance criteria, access methods, devices, applications and operating systems will be required or desired by enterprises and their mobile workers. If we implement technological changes or specifications that are different from those required or desired, or if we are unable to successfully integrate required or desired technological changes or specifications into our wired or wireless services, market acceptance of our services may be significantly reduced or delayed and our business could be harmed. Our software is complex and may contain errors that could damage our reputation and decrease usage of our services. Our software may contain errors that interrupt network access or have other unintended consequences. If network access is disrupted due to a software error, or if any other unintended negative results occur, such as the loss of billing information, a security breach or unauthorized access to our virtual network, our reputation could be harmed and our business may suffer. Although we generally attempt by contract to limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages, if these contract provisions are not enforced or enforceable for any reason, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, our operating results could be harmed. 15 Table of Contents Because much of our business is international, we encounter additional risks, which may negatively impact our operating results. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from business conducted internationally. Revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States were 38% of our revenues in 2006, of which approximately 26% and 10% were generated in our EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific regions, respectively. Although we currently bill for our services in U.S. dollars, our international operations subject our business to specific risks. These risks include: • longer payment cycles for foreign customers, including delays due to currency controls and fluctuations; • the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the attractiveness of our pricing; • high taxes in some foreign jurisdictions; • difficulty in complying with Internet-related regulations in foreign jurisdictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting these rights. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business. Acquisitions could cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our operating results, and could dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Part of our growth strategy is to consider and, if we believe it is advantageous to our company, to acquire new businesses, technologies and services. For example, we completed the acquisitions of Safe3w, Inc. in September 2004, Mobile Automation, Inc. in October 2004 and GoRemote in February 2006. Integrating any newly acquired business, technology or service can be expensive and time-consuming. If we are unable to integrate and operate acquired businesses, technologies or services efficiently or otherwise realize the benefits of an acquisition that we envisioned when making the acquisition, the acquisition could have an unanticipated negative effect on our business and operating results. Acquisitions can also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumption of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Further, to finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. If we are unable to effectively manage future expansion, our business may be adversely impacted. We have experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, rapid growth in operations. This has placed, and could continue to place, a significant strain on our network operations, development of services, internal controls and other managerial, operating, and financial resources. If we do not manage future expansion effectively, our business will be harmed. To effectively manage any future expansion, we will need to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures, which include the following: • managing our research and development efforts for new and evolving technologies; • expanding the capacity and performance of our network and software infrastructure; • developing our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • effectively maintaining coordination among our various departments, particularly as we expand internationally. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to securities class action lawsuits due to decreases in our stock price. We are at risk of being subject to securities class action lawsuits if our stock price declines substantially. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. For example, in June 2004, we announced that we would not meet market expectations regarding our financial performance in the second quarter, and our stock price declined. In 2005, three purported class action complaints, which subsequently were consolidated, and two purported derivative actions, which also were consolidated, were filed against iPass and certain of our executive officers and directors. Although we were successful in our defense of these lawsuits, we may be subject to similar lawsuits in the future if our stock price were to decline substantially, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful in defending any such future lawsuits. Any future securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, and could seriously harm our business. Litigation arising from disputes involving third parties could disrupt the conduct of our business. Because we rely on third parties to help us develop, market and support our service offerings, from time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. If we are unable to resolve these disputes favorably, our development, marketing or support of our services could be delayed or limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents Litigation arising out of intellectual property infringement could be expensive and disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products do not, or will not, infringe upon patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. Any claim of infringement of proprietary rights of others, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Successful claims against us may result in an injunction or substantial monetary liability, in either case which could significantly impact our results of operations or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are enjoined from using a technology, we will need to obtain a license to use the technology, but licenses to third-party technology may not be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. If licenses to third party technologies do not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected. We license technologies from several software providers that are incorporated in our services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. In particular, we license encryption technology from RSA Security. Our license agreement with RSA Security expired in February 2006 and automatically renewed for an additional three-year period. This license will continue to automatically renew for additional three-year periods upon expiration, unless terminated by us or by RSA Security. Licenses from third party technologies, including our license with RSA Security, may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. The loss of these technologies or other technologies that we license could have an adverse effect on our services and increase our costs or cause interruptions or delays in our services until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into our services. Risks Relating to Our Industry Security concerns may delay the widespread adoption of the Internet for enterprise communications, or limit usage of Internet-based services, which would reduce demand for our products and services. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a significant barrier to further adoption of the Internet as a business medium. The Internet is a public network and information is sent over this network from many sources. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of code breaking or other developments could result in compromised security on our network or the networks of others. Security and authentication concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information, such as corporate access passwords and the ability of hackers to penetrate online security systems may reduce the demand for our services. Further, new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems have also introduced additional vulnerabilities which have been actively exploited by hackers. Internet-based worms and viruses, computer programs that are created to slow Internet traffic or disrupt computer networks or files by replicating through software or operating systems, are examples of events or computer programs that can disrupt users from using our Internet-based services and reduce demand for our services, potentially affecting our business and financial performance. In particular, certain Internet worms and viruses affected some of our customers and their mobile users, which may have negatively impacted our revenues. Furthermore, any well-publicized compromises of confidential information may reduce demand for Internet-based communications, including our services. Government regulation of, and legal uncertainties regarding, the Internet could harm our business. Internet-based communication services generally are not subject to federal fees or taxes imposed to support programs such as universal telephone service. Changes in the rules or regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission or in applicable federal communications laws relating to the imposition of these fees or taxes could result in significant new operating expenses for us, and could negatively impact our business. Any new law or regulation, U.S. or foreign, pertaining to Internet-based communications services, or changes to the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise harm our business. There are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws or regulations may relate to taxation and the quality of products and services. Furthermore, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, encryption, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, export or import matters and other issues is uncertain and developing and we are not certain how the possible application of these laws may affect us. Some of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address these issues could create uncertainty in the Internet market, which could reduce demand for our services, increase our operating expenses or increase our litigation costs. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written SEC comments received at least 180 days prior to December 31, 2006. Item 