Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. In 2010 we released a new cloud-based platform for the delivery of our enterprise mobility services and if our Open Mobile Platform does not achieve market acceptance our ability to grow our business could be harmed. In 2010, we released a new cloud-based platform for the delivery of our enterprise mobility services. The future success of our business will depend in large part on our current and prospective customers’ acceptance of our Open Mobile Platform and enterprise mobility services. Key risks associated with our Open Mobile Platform and services are as follows: Our Open Mobile Platform may not have all functionality desired by our customers. Early versions of the platform will not have all the functionality contained in our old platform. This may cause customers to delay their decision to purchase and/or adopt the Open Mobile Platform. There is risk that we may not timely release versions of the Open Mobile Platform that contain features that our customers desire and we will need to provide our customers with stable, easy to use, feature-rich and valuable enterprise mobility services related to security, policy control and reporting. Further, the Open Mobile Platform may contain bugs or errors that would cause our customers to not adopt or delay the adoption of the Open Mobile Platform. In addition, the Open Mobile Platform and our supporting IT infrastructure may have technological limitations or errors that could cause us not to accurately record the number of users of the platform. If some or all of these risks associated with our Open Mobile Platform were to occur, market acceptance of the platform may not occur and our business could be harmed. Customer deployment of our Open Mobile Platform may not result in increased use of our services. We believe it is important to the future success of our business that our customers’ employees increase their usage of our services. We believe that the deployment by our customers of our Open Mobile Platform will lead to increased usage of our services and an increase in our revenue. However, even if a significant portion of our customers deploy our Open Mobile Platform, there is no guarantee that our customers will use our services more frequently. Customers must be willing to pay for our platform in order for us to generate meaningful revenues and growth. We believe that it is important that the value proposition of our Open Mobile Platform is accepted by enterprise customers such that they are willing to pay for their employees to use our enterprise mobility services. If enterprises are willing to adopt our Open Mobile Platform but are not willing to pay for incremental users and/or additional usage within their organizations, our ability to grow revenues and profitability could be adversely impacted. Our network revenue and overall profitability may be adversely impacted by material reductions in existing customer and partner minimum commitments. Our customers and partners that are billed on a usage basis have traditionally entered into contractual provisions that require them to pay the greater of the fees generated from the use of our services or a minimum committed amount over a pre-determined time period. Recent global economic conditions in certain cases caused our customers and partners to generate fees from the use of our services that were significantly less than their minimum committed amounts. Consequently this shortfall has caused some partners and customers upon renewal of their contracts with us, to renew with a lower minimum commitment and in some cases with no minimum 13 Table of Contents commitment. Additionally, in some cases partners and customers are requesting a re-evaluation of their minimum commitments on a prospective basis during the term of their existing contract; in order to maintain these commercial relationships, we have addressed these requests on a contract by contract basis. The reduction or elimination of minimum commitments means that a larger percentage of future revenue will be based on the actual usage of our services, making our ability to forecast revenue in a given period more difficult to predict and may result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. If we do not accurately predict network usage for our Flat Rate price plans, our costs could increase without a corresponding increase in network revenue. A number of our customers have transitioned to our Flat Rate price plans, and we are signing new customers to this plan. In this plan, our customers pay a flat rate price to access our network services. However, in the majority of situations we continue to pay our providers based on usage. The rate we charge in our Flat Rate price plans is based on statistical predictions of usage across a pool of users within an enterprise. If actual usage is higher than expected our profitability could be negatively impacted. If we do not deliver valuable services for smart-phones and other mobile handheld devices our ability to grow our business may be impaired. A variety of smart-phone and tablet devices are available in the marketplace enabling individuals to, among other things, check email, access business applications and access the Internet. These devices are becoming more relied upon by our customers’ employees. If the capabilities of smart-phones, tablets or other mobile handheld devices cause our users to stop using laptops while traveling, or to use them less often, then our operating results may be harmed. Further, if we do not develop valuable services for smart-phones, tablets and handheld devices in a timely fashion, these devices may access the Internet and/or be managed without our services, impairing our ability to grow our business. If demand for enterprise mobility services does not grow or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, we may experience a decline in revenues and profitability. The growth of our business is dependent, in part, upon the increased use of enterprise mobility services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. If the demand for enterprise mobility services does not continue to grow, or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, then we may not be able to grow our business, or achieve or maintain profitability. Increased usage of our enterprise mobility services depends on numerous factors, including: • Willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures; • Availability of security services necessary to ensure data privacy over a variety of networks; • Quality, cost and functionality of our services and competing services; • Increased adoption of wireless broadband access methods and our ability to support these new methods; • Proliferation of smart-phones, tablets and mobile handheld devices and related applications; and • Our ability to provide valuable services and support for those devices. If key global Wi-Fi venues offer “no charge” Internet access, our network revenues could be negatively affected. We derive a significant portion of our network revenue from providing Wi-Fi access in certain key venues (e.g., hotels, airports and cafes). In general, these venues charge their customers for Wi-Fi access. If these venues begin offering Wi-Fi access at no charge, the amount we can charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these 14 Table of Contents venues will likely decrease significantly or we may not charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these venues. For example, Starbucks and certain airports in the United States have recently ceased charging their customers for Wi-Fi access and we have experienced reduced revenues as a result. If this trend continues at other key Wi-Fi venues, our network revenues and overall profitability may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to meet the challenges posed by broadband access, our ability to profitably grow our business may be impaired. A substantial portion of the growth of our business has depended, and will continue to depend, in part upon our ability to expand our global network by addressing broadband access technologies, such as 3G and Wi-Fi and other future wireless technologies. Such an expansion may not result in additional revenues to us. Key challenges in expanding the broadband elements of our network include: The broadband access market continues to develop at a rapid pace. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless broadband “hotspots,” such as certain airports, hotels and convention centers. The broadband access market, particularly for wireless access, continues to develop rapidly, in particular: the market for enterprise connectivity services through broadband is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and there is currently no uniform standard for wireless access. Furthermore, although the use of wireless frequencies generally does not require a license in the United States and abroad, if Wi-Fi frequencies become subject to licensing requirements, or are otherwise restricted, this would substantially impair the growth of wireless access. Some large telecommunications providers and other stakeholders that pay large sums of money to license other portions of the wireless spectrum may seek to have the Wi-Fi spectrum become subject to licensing restrictions. If the broadband wireless access market develops in ways that limit access growth, our ability to generate substantial revenues from broadband wireless access could be harmed. The broadband service provider market is highly fragmented. There are currently many wired and wireless broadband service providers that provide coverage in only one or a small number of hotspots. We have entered into contractual relationships with numerous broadband service providers. These contracts generally have an initial term of two years or less. We must continue to develop relationships with many providers on terms commercially acceptable to us in order to provide adequate coverage for our customers’ mobile workers and to expand our broadband coverage. We may also be required to develop additional technologies in order to integrate new broadband services into our service offering. If we are unable to develop these relationships or technologies, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. In addition, if broadband service providers consolidate, our negotiating leverage with providers may decrease, resulting in increased rates for access, which could harm our operating results. Broadband service provider actions may restrict our ability to sell our services. Some network providers restrict our ability to sell access to their networks to our resellers whom they consider competitive with them. This can reduce our revenue by limiting the footprint our partners can make available to their customers. In addition, in some geographies the conventional practice is for a mobile data (3G) carrier to provide a device on a subsidized basis. This device cannot easily be used with any network besides that of the carrier who provides it, which makes it difficult for us to replace that carrier in the account and thus may negatively impact our ability to sign new enterprise customers to our 3G service which could harm our ability to grow our business. Significant dependency with a single network provider could negatively affect our revenues. There are certain venues (hotels, airports, cafes, etc.) globally where we depend on a single provider for network access in those venues. In addition, in certain geographies we depend on a small number of providers for a large portion of network access. If such a provider were to go out of business or terminate their agreement with iPass, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability if we cannot find an alternative provider to provide network access in those venues or geographies. 15 Table of Contents In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives, sales representatives, engineers and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, sales representatives and engineers are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. If we experience significant turnover of our executives, sales representatives and engineers it will be difficult to achieve our business objectives and could adversely impact our results. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may impair our ability to provide reliable, redundant and expanded network service coverage and negotiate favorable network access terms. The telecommunications industry is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. These factors may result in certain network service providers having poor operating results. As a result, some of these service providers have consolidated and are working to consolidate or otherwise cease operations, which would reduce the number of network service providers from which we are able to obtain network access. If consolidation continues to occur, we will have a smaller number of network service providers to acquire network access from and we may not be able to provide additional or sufficient redundant access points in some geographic areas, which could diminish our ability to provide broad, reliable, redundant coverage. Further, our ability to negotiate favorable access rates from network service providers could be impaired, which could increase our network access expenses and harm our operating results. We face strong competition in the market for enterprise mobility services, which could make it difficult for us to succeed. While we do not believe there are service providers in the enterprise mobility services market that offer a platform or range of services in an integrated offering as we do, we compete with a variety of service providers, including facilities-based carriers, cloud-based platform operators and mobility management solution providers. Some of these providers have substantially greater resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories and/or greater name recognition than we have. In addition, we face the following challenges: Many of our competitors can compete on price. Because many of our facilities-based competitors own and operate physical networks they may be able to provide additional hotspot access at little incremental cost to them. As a result, they may offer network access services at a lower cost, and may be willing to discount or subsidize network access services to capture other sources of revenue. In contrast, we have traditionally purchased network access from facilities-based network service providers to enable our network access service and in these cases, may not be able to compete aggressively on price. In addition, new cloud-based platform operators may enter enterprise mobility services market and compete on price. In either case, we may lose business or be forced to lower our prices to compete, which could reduce our revenues. Many of our competitors offer additional services that we do not, which enables them to bundle these services and compete favorably against us. Some of our competitors provide services that we do not, such as: local exchange and long distance services, voicemail and digital subscriber line (DSL) services. Potential customers that desire these services on a bundled basis may choose to subscribe to network access from a competitor that provides these additional services. Our potential customers may have unrelated business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large facilities-based carriers that purchase substantial amounts of services or provide other services or goods unrelated to network access services. As a result, if a potential customer is also a supplier to one of our large competitors, or purchases unrelated services or goods from our competitor, the potential customer may be motivated to purchase its network access services from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance its 16 Table of Contents business relationship with that competitor. In addition, our current or potential carrier customers may already have or may consider buying services from mobility management solution providers which may impact our ability to sell our services to those customers as well as drive market prices down for the services that we offer. Users may take advantage of free Wi-Fi networks for Internet and corporate access. Telecommunications providers may offer free Wi-Fi as part of a home broadband or other service contract, which may force down the prices which the market will bear for our services and could reduce our revenues. We face strong competition in the market for managed network services, which could make it difficult for us to grow. In the market for managed network services, we compete with a variety of large connectivity service providers, many of whom own their own networks. We see the competition from these larger service providers which own their own networks in two primary ways: first in that they can provide a broader range of network options (MPLS, Frame Relay, Wire line and Wireless Voice, etc.) and, second, they can integrate their separate products providing cross-product subsidization. There are also small regional players with a similar model to ours who compete with us. If we are not able to offer competitively priced offerings that are profitable for us, we may have difficulty growing our managed network services business. If we fail to address market requirements, evolving standards and technological changes in the enterprise mobility services industry, our business could be harmed. The market for enterprise mobility services and mobile devices (laptops, smart-phones, tablets and handhelds devices is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and rapid technological change; including; new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems. In developing and introducing our services, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which features, security standards, performance criteria, access methods, devices, applications and operating systems will be required or desired by enterprises and their mobile workers. If we implement technological changes or specifications that are different from those required or desired, or if we are unable to successfully integrate required or desired technological changes or specifications into our services, market acceptance of our services may be significantly reduced or delayed and our business could be harmed. If our carrier and channel partners do not successfully market our enterprise mobility services to their customers, then our revenues and business may be adversely affected. We sell our services directly through our sales force and indirectly through our channel partners, which include network service providers, systems integrators and value-added resellers. A large percentage of our sales outside the United States are made through our carrier and channel partners. Our business depends on the efforts and the success of these carrier and channel partners in marketing our services to their customers. Our own ability to promote our services directly to our carrier and channel partners’ customers is often limited. Many of our carrier and channel partners may offer services to their customers that may be similar to, or competitive with, our services. Therefore, these channel partners may not actively promote our services. If our channel partners fail to market our services effectively, our ability to grow our revenue could be reduced and our business may be impaired. Our software is complex and may contain errors that could damage our reputation and decrease usage of our services. Our software may contain errors that interrupt network access or have other unintended consequences. If network access is disrupted due to a software error, or if any other unintended negative results occur, such as the loss of billing information, a security breach, unauthorized access to our cloud-based platform or the introduction of a virus by our software onto our customers’ computers or networks, our reputation could be harmed and our 17 Table of Contents business may suffer. Our contracts generally limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages and to the extent possible; we further limit our exposure by entering into insurance policies that are designed to protect our customers and us from these and other types of losses. If these contract provisions are not enforced or enforceable, or if liabilities arise that are not, effectively, limited, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our customers which directly impacts our business and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend on our customers having adequate resources to purchase our services. Poor global economic conditions adversely impact our customers and potential customers. Such conditions cause our customers to alter their purchasing and payment activities in response to deterioration in the businesses, lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and under these circumstances our customers may reduce, delay or terminate purchases of, and payment for, our services. Poor economic conditions may cause certain of our current and prospective customers to merge with others, or cut expenditures, which may result in less demand for our services. In addition, poor economic conditions generally result in decreased business travel which results in decreased demand for our services. If we are unable to protect against these events or adequately respond to changes in demand resulting from deteriorating market and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Events or conditions that result in a decrease in business travel could adversely affect our business. If events or conditions occur that cause users of our services to decrease the amount that they travel, this could result in a substantial decrease in the demand for our services. Certain global or regional events such as outbreaks or fear of pandemics or terrorist events could severely restrict business-related travel and the use of our services. Further, if conditions improve following one of the aforementioned events business travel may not return to previous levels. Because a meaningful portion of our business is international, we encounter additional risks, which may impact our revenues and profitability. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international customers. Revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States were approximately 38% of our revenues in 2010, of which approximately 30% and 7% were generated in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific regions, respectively. We currently bill the majority of our services in U.S. Dollars and pay expenses in local currencies. Our international operations subject our business to specific risks that could negatively impact our business, including: • Generally longer payment cycles for foreign customers; • The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the attractiveness of our pricing and our operating results; • High taxes in some foreign jurisdictions; • Difficulty in complying with Internet-related regulations in foreign jurisdictions; • Difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting these rights; and • Ability to efficiently deploy and generate returns in foreign jurisdictions. Our reduced cash balances may impede our ability to make acquisitions or aggressively fund growth initiatives. In 2009 and 2010, we returned a total of approximately $40 million in capital to our stockholders which consisted of approximately $34.0 million in extraordinary cash dividends and $5.9 million in stock repurchases. 18 Table of Contents Although we believe that we have sufficient cash to operate our business, we have significantly less cash with which to acquire additional technologies or other businesses if the opportunities arise. Further, if our cash flows were to decrease significantly, we will have less cash to support operations through any period of significant negative cash flow, which could cause us to have to decrease our expenditures on research and development and in other areas, which could negatively affect our business. We may be exposed to credit risk, collection risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable. A substantial majority of our outstanding accounts receivables are not secured. Our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our services. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our collection risk and avoid losses. In addition, under poor economic conditions, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our operating results. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact the re-measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and generate foreign exchange gains and losses. In addition, certain of our network access costs are invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The transactional settlement of these outstanding liabilities generates foreign exchange gains and losses depending on the fluctuation of exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and the various foreign currencies in which we do business between the date of invoicing and the date of payment. Accordingly, changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar could negatively affect our operating results. During 2010, we did not enter into any hedging contracts to manage foreign currency exposure. Our sales cycles are lengthy and could require us to incur substantial costs that may not result in related revenues. Our business is characterized by a lengthy sales cycle. In addition, once a contract with a customer is signed there is typically an extended period before the customer’s end users actually begin to use our services, which is typically when we begin to realize revenues. Furthermore, the release of our Open Mobile Platform and services may further extend the sales cycle. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer which may not result in any revenues. Even if we enter into a contract, we may have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales efforts increase and, we are not successful in our sales efforts, or we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner; our operating results could be harmed. Security concerns related to Internet-based services could reduce demand for our services. The secure transmission of confidential information when using Internet-based services is extremely important to our customers. Security and authentication concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information, such as corporate access passwords and the ability of hackers to penetrate online security systems may reduce the demand for our services. Further, new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems have also introduced additional vulnerabilities which have been actively exploited by hackers. Internet-based worms and viruses, computer programs that are created to slow Internet traffic or disrupt computer networks or files by replicating through software or operating systems, are examples of events or computer programs that can disrupt users from using our services and reduce demand for our services, potentially affecting our business and financial performance. Furthermore, any well-publicized compromises of confidential information may reduce demand for Internet-based services, including our services. 19 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s internal network, our cloud-based platform may be perceived as not being secure and enterprises may curtail or stop using our services. It is imperative for our customers that access to their mission critical data is secure. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the security measures that we have engineered into our network for the authentication of the end user’s credentials. These measures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to our customers’ networks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our services, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. If licenses to third party technologies do not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected. We license technologies from several software providers that are incorporated into our services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. Licenses to third party technologies may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. The loss of the right to use these technologies or other technologies that we license could have an adverse effect on our services and increase our costs or cause interruptions or delays in our services until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into our services. Litigation arising out of intellectual property infringement could be expensive and disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our services do not, or will not, infringe upon patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. Any claim of infringement of proprietary rights of others, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Successful claims against us may result in an injunction or substantial monetary liability, which in either case could significantly impact our results of operations or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are enjoined from using a technology, we will need to obtain a license to use the technology, but licenses to third-party technology may not be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. Government regulation of, and legal uncertainties regarding, the Internet could harm our business. Internet-based communication services generally are not subject to federal fees or taxes imposed to support programs such as universal telephone service. Changes in the rules or regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission or in applicable federal communications laws relating to the imposition of these fees or taxes could result in significant new operating expenses for us, and could negatively impact our business. Any new law or regulation, U.S. or foreign, pertaining to Internet-based communications services, such as the recently enacted European Union legislation requiring network operators to notify customers of roaming rates prior to incurring roaming charges, or changes to the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise harm our business. There are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws or regulations may relate to taxation and the quality of services. Furthermore, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, encryption, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, export or import matters and other issues is uncertain and developing and we are not certain how the possible application of these laws may affect us. Some of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address these issues could create uncertainty in the Internet market, which could reduce demand for our services, increase our operating expenses or increase our litigation costs. 20 Table of Contents Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. During 2009, we recorded a liability of approximately $5.0 million reflecting our best estimate of our potential sales tax liability and associated interest and penalties thereon. During 2010, we reduced this liability down to $2.9 million as a result of settlements with certain state tax authorities, payments and revised estimates. The application and interpretation of various state sales tax laws to certain of our services is uncertain. Accordingly, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability to the extent various state jurisdictions determine that certain of our services are subject to their state’s sales tax. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions, including settlements with certain taxing authorities, are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, the actual liabilities may be more than such estimates, and if so, such liability may negatively impact our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 