RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in Elite and in analyzing our forward-looking statements. OUR CONTINUING LOSSES ENDANGER OUR VIABILITY AS A GOING-CONCERN AND HAVE CAUSED OUR AUDITORS TO ISSUE "GOING CONCERN" ANNUAL AUDIT REPORTS. We reported net losses of $5,906,890, $6,514,217 and $4,061,422 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. At March 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $41.1 million, consolidated assets of approximately $9.2 million, stockholders' equity of approximately $5.7 million, and working capital of approximately $3.3 million. Our products are in the development and early deployment stage and have not generated any significant revenue to date. Our independent auditors have issued a "going concern" audit report for our financial statements for each of the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003. WE HAVE A RELATIVELY LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY, WHICH MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS. Although we have been in operation since 1990, we have a relatively short operating history and limited financial data upon which you may evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our business model is likely to continue to evolve as we attempt to expand our product offerings and enter new markets. As a result, our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are attempting to move into new markets and continuing to innovate with new and unproven technologies. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: o develop new products; o obtain regulatory approval of our products; o manage our growth, control expenditures and align costs with revenues; o attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and o respond to competitive developments. If we do not effectively address the risks we face, our business model may become unworkable and we may not achieve or sustain profitability or successfully develop any products. 13 WE HAVE NOT BEEN PROFITABLE AND EXPECT FUTURE LOSSES. To date, we have not been profitable, and since our inception in 1990, we have not generated any significant revenues. We may never be profitable or, if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain profitability. We have sustained losses in each year since our incorporation in 1990. We incurred net losses of $5,906,890, $6,514,217, $4,061,422, and $1,774,527 for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. We expect to realize significant losses for the current year of operation. We expect to continue to incur losses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations and offset operating costs. OUR FOUNDER AND FORMER PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RESIGNED IN JUNE 2003 ALL OF HIS POSITIONS WITH ELITE, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US. On June 3, 2003, Dr. Atul M. Mehta, our founder and former President and Chief Executive Officer resigned from all of his positions with Elite. In the past, we relied on Dr. Mehta's scientific expertise in developing our products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully replace Dr. Mehta's expertise. In addition, the loss of Dr. Mehta's services may adversely affect our relationships with our contract partners. Pursuant to an agreement in April 2004 and a related agreement in October 2004, to settle a litigation initiated by Dr. Mehta in July 2003 for alleged breach of his employment agreement, the Company extended the expiration dates to November 30, 2007 of options to purchase 670,000 shares of Common Stock held by Dr. Mehta and reduced the exercise price of certain of the options and he relinquished any rights to the Company's intellectual property and agreed to certain non-disclosure and non-competition covenants. The Company also provided him with certain "piggyback" registration rights with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the foregoing options granted by the Company. Dr. Mehta and members of his family sold in October 2004 an aggregate of 1,362,200 shares of Common Stock representing all of his and his affiliates holdings of securities of the Company except for the foregoing options. OUR RESEARCH ACTIVITIES ARE CHARACTERIZED BY INHERENT RISK AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP PRODUCTS FOR COMMERCIAL USE THAT ARE IN OUR PIPELINE. Our research activities are characterized by the inherent risk that the research will not yield results that will receive FDA approval or otherwise be suitable for commercial exploitation. As of March 31, 2005, we have entered into agreements with respect to the marketing upon development of three drugs. Each agreement provides that we are to commercially develop the product and upon securing by a partner or partners having FDA approval or other regulatory approval, if required, we will manufacture the product and sell it to a partner or marketing partner for distribution. The commercial development of one of the three drugs has been completed and the two other drugs are 14 under development. No assurance can be given that sales, if any, by any marketing partner will result in profit for Elite from the product. Of the four additional products and on which we are devoting substantial attention, two are in pilot Phase I studies and two are in the pilot bioequivalence stage. Additional studies including either pivotal bioequivalence or efficacy studies will be required for these products before commercialization. In order for any of these four products to be commercialized, the FDA requires successful completion of pivotal biostudies to file an ANDA followed by successful completion of pivotal clinical trials before filing a ND. The FDA next requires successful completion of comparative studies for drug listed products are required. ANDAs are filed with respect to generic versions of existing FDA approved products while NDAs are filed with respect to new products. WE COULD EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY IN DEVELOPING AND INTEGRATING STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, CO-DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND OTHER RELATIONSHIPS. With respect to products that are developed and are available for commercial sale, we intend to pursue product-specific licensing, marketing agreements, co-development opportunities and other partnering arrangements in connection with the distribution of the product. We have entered into partnership arrangements as to three products but no assurance can be given that we will be able to locate other partners or that the arrangement will be suitable. In addition, assuming we identify suitable partners, the process of effectively entering into these arrangements involves risks such that our management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns and that we may have difficulty integrating the new arrangements into our existing business. OUR LIMITED EXPERIENCE IN CONDUCTING CLINICAL TRIALS AND SUBMITTING NDAS AND THE UNCERTAINTIES INHERENT IN CLINICAL TRIALS COULD RESULT IN DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION. Prior to seeking FDA approval for the commercial sale of any drug we develop, which does not qualify for the FDA's abbreviated application procedures, we or our partner must demonstrate through clinical trials that these products are safe and effective for use. We have limited experience in conducting and supervising clinical trials. The process of completing clinical trials and preparing an NDA may take several years and requires substantial resources. Our studies and filings may not result in FDA approval to market our new drug products and, if the FDA grants approval, we cannot predict the timing of any approval. IF OUR CLINICAL TRIALS ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL OR TAKE LONGER TO COMPLETE THAN WE EXPECT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP AND COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our potential products, we will be required to complete clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the 15 safety and efficacy of the products. We may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA or other regulatory agencies to commence or complete these clinical trials. The results from preclinical testing of a product that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger scale advanced stage clinical trials. Furthermore, we or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if the subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, or for other reasons. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate of enrollment of subjects. A favorable clinical trial result is a function of many factors including the size of the subject population, the proximity of subjects to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study and the existence of competitive clinical trials. Delays in planned subject enrollment may result in increased costs and program delays. We may not be able to successfully complete any clinical trial of a potential product within any specified time period. In some cases, we may not be able to complete the trial at all. Moreover, clinical trials may not show any potential product to be safe or efficacious. Thus, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any of our potential products for any indication. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if: o we are unable to complete a clinical trial of one of our potential products; o the results of any clinical trial are unfavorable; or o the time or cost of completing the trial exceeds our expectations. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS FOR OUR RAW MATERIALS, AND ANY DELAY OR UNAVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS CAN MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO PRODUCE PRODUCTS. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier, FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including: o greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; o the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; 16 o interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and o uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in certain foreign jurisdictions (primarily in Europe) may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for research and development prior to expiration of applicable United States or foreign patents. Any inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases that cannot be passed on to customers, could have a material adverse effect on us. The delay or unavailability of raw materials can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. This can materially adversely affect our business and operations. IF WE NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING IN ORDER TO SATISFY OUR SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, IT WOULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO DO BUSINESS. We completed a $6,600,000 private placement in October 2004 of (i) 516,558 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock convertible into shares of Common Stock, (ii) warrants ("Short Term Warrants") expiring December 31, 2005 to purchase an aggregate of 2,582,790 shares of Common Stock at prices ranging from $1.54 to $1.84, (iii) warrants ("Long Term Warrants") expiring December 27, 2009 to purchase 2,582,790 shares of Common Stock at prices ranging from $1.54 to $1.84 per share, and (iv) additional Long Term Warrants issued to the Placement Agent to purchase 494,931 shares of Common Stock at prices ranging from $1.23 to $1.47 per share. All of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have been converted into an aggregate of 5,265,516 shares of Common Stock, including 26,961 shares of Common Stock issued as payment of the accrued dividend on December 1, 2004. Based on our currently proposed plans and assumptions relating to our operations, we anticipate that we will have sufficient capital to satisfy our contemplated cash requirements through March 31, 2006. After that time, we may require additional financing. In particular, we expect to make substantial expenditures as we further develop and seek to commercialize our products. As of March 31, 2005, our cash position was $3.9 million. Based on current expenditures, we are depleting cash at the rate of $300,000 per month. We expect that our rate of spending will accelerate as the result of increased costs and expenses associated with seeking regulatory approval and commercialization of products now in development. We have no current arrangements with respect to additional financings other than the potential exercise of the Short Term and Long Term Warrants issued in the October 2004 private placement, the Class B and Class C Warrants and other warrants and options that are currently outstanding. We have no way of knowing whether any of the options or warrants will be exercised and if so the extent by which their exercise will be pursuant to cashless exercise provisions. We do not currently 17 have commitments for their exercise or other financing, and so do not know whether additional financing would be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our inability to obtain additional financing when needed would impair our ability to continue our business. If any future financing involves the further sale of our securities, our then-existing stockholders' equity could be substantially diluted. On the other hand, if we incurred debt, we would be subject to risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates might fluctuate and cash flow would be insufficient to pay principal and interest on such indebtedness. If our plans change, or our assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate, or our cash flow proves to be insufficient to fund our operations due to unanticipated expenses or problems, we would be required to seek additional financing sooner than anticipated. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS AND AVOID CLAIMS THAT WE INFRINGED ON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS, OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS MAY BE IMPAIRED. Our success, competitive position and amount of royalty income, if any, will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection in various jurisdictions related to our technologies, processes and products. We intend to file patent applications seeking such protection, but we cannot be certain that these applications will result in the issuance of patents. If patents are issued, third parties may sue us to challenge such patent protection, and although we know of no reason why they should prevail, it is possible that they could. It is likewise possible that our patents may not prevent third parties from developing similar or competing products. In addition, although we are not aware of any threatened or pending actions by third parties asserting that we have infringed on their patents, and are not aware of any actions we have taken that would lead to such a claim, it is possible that we might be sued for infringement. The cost involved in bringing suits against others for infringement of our patents, or in defending any suits brought against us, can be substantial. We may not possess sufficient funds to prosecute or defend such suits. If our products were found to infringe upon patents issued to others, we would be prohibited from manufacturing or selling such products and we could be required to pay substantial damages. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents, or other proprietary rights of third parties, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies as they relate to other persons' technologies. At such time as we discover a need to obtain any such license, we will need to establish whether we will be able to obtain such a license on favorable terms. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products. We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek to protect this know-how in part by confidentiality agreements. We consistently require our employees and potential business partners to execute confidentiality agreements prior to doing business with us. However, it is possible that an employee would disclose confidential 18 information in violation of his or her agreement, or that our trade secrets would otherwise become known or be independently developed in such a manner that we will have no practical recourse. We are not engaged in any litigation, nor contemplating any, with regard to a claim that someone has infringed one of our patents, revealed any of our trade secrets, or otherwise misused our confidential information. THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IS SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE FDA REGULATION AND FOREIGN REGULATION, WHICH PRESENTS NUMEROUS RISKS TO US. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical products in the United States and abroad are subject to stringent governmental regulation. The sale of any of our products for use in humans in the United States will require the approval of the FDA. Similar approvals by comparable agencies are required in most foreign countries. The FDA has established mandatory procedures and safety standards that apply to the clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Obtaining FDA approval for a new therapeutic product may take several years and involve substantial expenditures. The six products currently under development have not yet been approved for sale or use in humans in the United States or elsewhere. If we or our licensees fail to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals or fail to obtain or maintain approvals of the scope requested, it will delay or preclude us or our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products. It could also limit the commercial use of our products. THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND SUBJECT TO RAPID AND SIGNIFICANT TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR ABILITY TO IMPLEMENT OUR BUSINESS MODEL. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. In addition, it is undergoing rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in each field are made and become more widely known. An increasing number of pharmaceutical companies have been or are becoming interested in the development and commercialization of products incorporating advanced or novel drug delivery systems. We expect that competition in the field of drug delivery will increase in the future as other specialized research and development companies begin to concentrate on this aspect of the business. Some of the major pharmaceutical companies have invested and are continuing to invest significant resources in the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies and some have invested funds in such specialized drug delivery companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Such companies may develop new formulations and products, or may improve existing ones, more efficiently than we can. Our success, if any, will depend in part on our ability to keep pace with the changing technology in the fields in which we operate. 19 IF KEY PERSONNEL WERE TO LEAVE ELITE OR IF WE ARE UNSUCCESSFUL IN ATTRACTING QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and business personnel experienced in the development, manufacture and marketing of controlled release drug delivery systems and products. Our business and financial results could be materially harmed by the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel. IF WE WERE SUED ON A PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIM, AN AWARD COULD EXCEED OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE AND COST US SIGNIFICANTLY. The design, development and manufacture of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. We have procured product liability insurance having a maximum limit of $5,000,000; however, a successful claim against us in excess of the policy limits could be very expensive to us, damaging our financial position. The amount of our insurance coverage, which has been limited due to our limited financial resources, may be materially below the coverage maintained by many of the other companies engaged in similar activities. To the best of our knowledge, no product liability claim has been made against us as of March 31, 2005. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN VOLATILE AND MAY FLUCTUATE IN THE FUTURE. There has been significant volatility in the market prices for publicly traded shares of pharmaceutical companies, including ours. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2005, the closing sale price on the American Stock Exchange of our Common Stock fluctuated from a high of $4.79 per share to a low of $1.05 per share. The per share price of our Common Stock may not remain at or exceed current levels. The market price for our Common Stock, and for the stock of pharmaceutical companies generally, has been highly volatile. The market price of our Common Stock may be affected by: o Results of our clinical trials; o Approval or disapproval of abbreviated new drug applications or new drug applications; o Announcements of innovations, new products or new patents by us or by our competitors; o Governmental regulation; o Patent or proprietary rights developments; o Proxy contests or litigation; 20 o News regarding the efficacy of, safety of or demand for drugs or drug technologies; o Economic and market conditions, generally and related to the pharmaceutical industry; o Healthcare legislation; o Changes in third-party reimbursement policies for drugs; and o Fluctuations in our operating results. All of the 516,558 shares of Series A Preferred Stock originally issued in the private placement of October 2004 have been converted into an aggregate of 5,238,555 shares of Common Stock and have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 for resale. In addition, we have registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended for reoffering 5,660,511 shares of Common Stock which may be acquired upon exercise of the Short Term Warrants, Long Term Warrants and the Placement Agent Warrants as well as 670,000 shares which may be acquired upon exercise of options at prices ranging from $1.00 to $3.00 per share granted to Dr. Atul Mehta. As of this date sales of substantial amounts of the Common Stock in the public market are eligible for sale by these holders. Perceptions that substantial sales may take place in the future may lower the Common Stock's market price. THE FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING OF THE COMMON STOCK WOULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE MARKET FOR THE COMMON STOCK AND ITS MARKET PRICE. One of the requirements for the continued listing of Common Stock on the American Stock Exchange for a company that has net losses for its five most recent fiscal years is that it have a stockholders' equity of at least $6,000,000. The Company has sustained a net loss for the year ending March 31, 2005, and as a result will have sustained net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. As of March 31, 2005, the Company had stockholders equity of approximately $5.7 million. The related provision of the American Stock Exchange guide provides that the Exchange will not normally consider removing a stock from listing if the total value of the Company's market capitalization as of the end of its most recent fiscal year is at least $50,000,000 as well as satisfying other conditions which the Company meets and expects to meet. The failure to maintain listing of the Common Stock on the Exchange will have an adverse effect on the market and the market price for the Common Stock. 21 THE ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK OR OUR PREFERRED STOCK COULD MAKE A CHANGE OF CONTROL MORE DIFFICULT TO ACHIEVE. The issuance of additional shares of the Company's Common Stock or the issuance of shares of an additional series of Preferred Stock could be used to make a change of control of the Company more difficult and expensive. Under certain circumstances, such shares could be used to create impediments to or frustrate persons seeking to cause a takeover or to gain control of the Company. Such shares could be sold to purchasers who might side with the Board in opposing a takeover bid that the Board determines not to be in the best interests of its stockholders. It might also have the effect of discouraging an attempt by another person or entity through the acquisition of a substantial number of shares of the Company's Common Stock to acquire control of the Company with a view to consummating a merger, sale of all or part of the Company's assets, or a similar transaction, since the issuance of new shares could be used to dilute the stock ownership of such person or entity. IF PENNY STOCK REGULATIONS BECOME APPLICABLE TO OUR COMMON STOCK THEY WILL IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THE MARKETABILITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND THE ABILITY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO SELL SHARES OF OUR STOCK COULD BE IMPAIRED. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share subject to certain exceptions. Exceptions include equity securities issued by an issuer that has (i) net tangible assets of at least $2,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for more than three years, or (ii) net tangible assets of at least $5,000,000, if such issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years, or (iii) average revenue of at least $6,000,000 for the preceding three years. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require that prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, a risk of disclosure schedule must be delivered to the buyer explaining the penny stock market and its risks. Our Common Stock is currently trading at under $5.00 per share. Although we currently fall under one of the exceptions, if at a later time we fail to meet one of the exceptions, our Common Stock will be considered a penny stock. As such the market liquidity for our Common Stock will be limited to the ability of broker-dealers to sell it in compliance with the above-mentioned disclosure requirements. You should be aware that, according to the SEC, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: o Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers; o "Boiler room" practices involving high-pressure sales tactics; o Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales; o The release of misleading information; 22 o Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and o Dumping of securities by broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, which hurts the price of the stock and causes investors to suffer loss. We are aware of the abuses that have occurred in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, we will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent such abuses with respect to our Common Stock. SECTION 203 OF THE DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW MAY DETER A THIRD PARTY FROM ACQUIRING US. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger with a 15% shareholder within three years of the date such shareholder acquired 15%, unless the merger meets one of several exceptions. The exceptions include, for example, approval by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares (not counting the 15% shareholder), or approval by the Board prior to the 15% shareholder acquiring its 15% ownership. This provision makes it difficult for a potential acquirer to force a merger with or takeover of the Company, and could thus limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. 