ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Business" in Item 1 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). We caution investors that any forward-looking statements presented in this Annual Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time are based on management's beliefs and assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words "anticipate", "believe", "expert", "intend", "may", "plan", "estimate", "project", "should", "will be" and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affected by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update forward-looking statements. Accordingly, past results and trends should not be used by investors to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the factors that might cause these differences include those set forth below. You should carefully review all of these factors, and you should be aware that there may be other factors that could cause these differences. These forward-looking statements were based on information, plans and estimates at the date of this Form 10-K, and we do not promise to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events or other changes. THE LOSS OF OUR THIRD-PARTY CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS. We outsource production of our products to third-party contract manufacturers. Our manufacturers' ability to complete orders on-time while maintaining high product quality is important to our operational success. The manufacturers' failure to live up to the production standards might cause brand equity damage and legal liability exposure. The loss of our contract manufacturer could significantly impact our ability to produce our products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing production can be a lengthy and expensive process. If we are required to change our contract manufacturer, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer, or if our contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of our products to our customers could be delayed resulting in loss of revenues and our competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. 4 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY, OUR PRODUCTS MAY BECOME OBSOLETE OR FAIL TO ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE. Vision imaging products are subject to a high degree of technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changes in customer demands. The introduction of competitive products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products to meet diverse and evolving customer requirements and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. The development of new products or enhanced versions of existing products entails significant technical risks. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or that new products will respond to technological change or evolving industry standards, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, implementation and marketing of these products and enhancements, or that any new products and product enhancements we may introduce will achieve market acceptance. If we are not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services, our business and results of operations will be harmed. WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN OUR BUSINESS, AND WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY AGAINST OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE COMPETITORS. The market for our products is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and have a larger installed base of customers. Some of these competitors also have extensive direct and indirect channels of distribution. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we are able to. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves with prospective customers. Some of our competitors may also combine with, or be acquired by other parties, providing them with additional resources with which to compete. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. IF WE LOSE KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO HIRE ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will also depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales and other personnel, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell, our products. WE MAY ENGAGE IN FUTURE MERGERS AND STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS THAT DILUTE THE OWNERSHIP PERCENTAGE OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS AND WOULD REQUIRE US TO USE CASH, INCUR DEBT OR ASSUME CONTINGENT LIABILITIES. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses, products or technologies in the future, we could: o incur significant unplanned expenses and personnel costs; o issue stock, or assume stock option plans that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; 5 o use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; o incur debt; o assume liabilities; and o spend resources on unconsummated transactions. WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF PAST OR FUTURE MERGERS AND STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS, AND INTEGRATION OF MERGERS MAY DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND MANAGEMENT. We have in the past and may in the future acquire or make strategic investments in additional companies, products or technologies. Most recently, we announced that we entered into an agreement to merge with L Q Corporation. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other mergers or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: o problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; o unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; o diversion of management's attention from our core business; o adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; o risks associated with entering into markets in which we have limited, or no prior experience; o failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; o incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; o incurrence of merger-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; o potential write-down of goodwill and/or acquired intangible assets, which are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, and could significantly impact our operating results; o inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; and o potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. If we are not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, or to realize expected benefits of our mergers or strategic investments, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM NASDAQ, WHICH LIMITS THE MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE ABILITY OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS TO RESELL OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market in 2004 for failure to maintain certain listing requirements and a significantly reduced market price of our common stock. The stock may be less liquid and more volatile as a result and it may be more difficult to raise new operating funds in the public market. The common stock is presently quoted only on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol "FAIM.OB" and the ability of our stockholders to obtain liquidity and consistent market prices for our shares has been significantly impaired. In addition, our common stock may constitute "penny stock" (as defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act) if it fails to meet certain criteria set forth in such Rule. Various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell "penny stocks" to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For 6 these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, if our common stock were to become "penny stock," then the Rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which could further affect the liquidity of the common stock. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO INCREASINGLY COMPLEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, PUBLIC DISCLOSURE, ACCOUNTING AND TAX REQUIREMENTS THAT HAVE INCREASED BOTH ITS COSTS AND THE RISK OF NONCOMPLIANCE. We are subject to rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), the Internal Revenue Service and NASD, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, significant legal, accounting and other expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We are subject to periodic audits or other reviews by such governmental agencies. The SEC periodically reviews our public company filings. Any such examination or review frequently requires management's time and diversion of internal resources and, in the event of an unfavorable outcome, may result in additional liabilities or adjustments to our historical financial results. RECENT CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING RULES, INCLUDING THE EXPENSING OF STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO OUR EMPLOYEES, COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR REPORTED BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. The U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the PCAOB, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. On December 15, 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires us to measure compensation expense for employee stock options using the fair value method beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, which is the quarter ended March 31, 2006. SFAS 123(R) applies to all outstanding stock options that are not vested at the effective date and grants of new stock options made subsequent to the effective date. As a result of SFAS 123(R), we recorded higher levels of stock based compensation due to differences between the valuation methods of SFAS 123(R) and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, or APB No. 25. In prior periods, we recorded any compensation expense associated with stock option grants to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB 25. OUR FUTURE OPERATING EXPENSES MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN OUR STOCK PRICE. A portion of our outstanding stock options are subject to variable accounting. Under variable accounting, we are required to remeasure the value of the options, and the corresponding compensation expense, at the end of each reporting period until the option is exercised, cancelled or expires unexercised. As a result, the stock-based compensation expense we recognize in any given period can vary substantially due to changes in the market value of our common stock. Volatility associated with stock price movements has resulted in compensation benefits when our stock price has declined and compensation expense when our stock price has increased. We are unable to predict the future market value of our common stock and therefore are unable to predict the compensation expense or benefit that we will record in future periods. 7 WE HAVE BEEN NAMED AS A PARTY TO SEVERAL CLASS ACTION LAWSUITS WHICH COULD REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT MANAGEMENT TIME AND ATTENTION AND RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LEGAL EXPENSES AND MAY RESULT IN AN UNFAVORABLE OUTCOME WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Dynabazaar is a defendant in certain purported class action lawsuits filed by individual shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Dynabazaar, Scott Randall (former President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Dynabazaar), John Belchers (former Chief Financial Officer of Dynabazaar), U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., DB Alex. Brown (as successor-in-interest to Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.), Robertson Stephens, Inc. (formerly known as FleetBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc.), Banc of America Securities, LLC, Goldman Sachs & Co., Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to Salomon Smith Barney, Inc.), and J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. (as successor-in-interest to Hambrecht & Quist, LLC). The lawsuits have been filed by individual shareholders who purport to seek class action status on behalf of all other similarly situated persons who purchased our common stock between March 14, 2000 and December 6, 2000. A consolidated amended class action complaint was filed on April 19, 2002. The complaint alleges that certain underwriters of our initial public offering solicited and received excessive and undisclosed fees and commissions in connection with that offering. The complaint further alleges that the defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing a registration statement and prospectus in connection with our initial public offering which failed to accurately disclose the amount and nature of the commissions and fees paid to the underwriter defendants. On or about October 8, 2002, the Court entered an Order dismissing the claims asserted against certain individual defendants in the consolidated actions, including the claims against Mr. Randall and Mr. Belchers, without any payment from these individuals or Dynabazaar. On or about February 19, 2003, the Court entered an Order dismissing with prejudice the claims asserted against Dynabazaar under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. As a result, the only claims that remain against Dynabazaar are those arising under Section 11 of the Securities Act. We have accepted a proposal for the settlement and release of the remaining claims in the litigation. The proposed settlement will result in a dismissal with prejudice of all claims and will include a release of all claims that were brought or could have been brought against Dynabazaar and its present and former directors and officers. It is anticipated that any payment to the plaintiff class and their counsel will be funded by our directors' and officers' liability insurance and that no direct payment will be made by us. The proposed settlement provides that the class members in the class action cases brought against the participating issuer defendants will be guaranteed a recovery of $1 billion by insurers of the participating issuer defendants. If recoveries totaling $1 billion or more are obtained by the class members from the underwriter defendants, the monetary obligations to the class members under the proposed settlement will be satisfied. In addition, Dynabazaar and any other participating issuer defendants will be required to assign to the class members certain claims that they may have against the underwriters of their IPOs. The proposed settlement contemplates that any amounts necessary to fund the settlement or settlement-related expenses would come from participating issuers' directors and officers' liability insurance policy proceeds as opposed to funds of the participating issuer defendants themselves. A participating issuer defendant could be required to contribute to the costs of the settlement if that issuer's insurance coverage were insufficient to pay that issuer's allocable share of the settlement costs. If ultimately approved by the Court, the proposed settlement would result in the dismissal, with prejudice, of all claims in the litigation against Dynabazaar and all of the other issuer defendants who have elected to participate in the proposed settlement, together with the current or former officers and directors of participating issuers who were named as individual defendants. The proposed settlement does not provide for the resolution of any claims against the underwriter defendants, and the litigation as against those defendants is continuing. Consummation of the proposed settlement remains conditioned upon obtaining approval by the Court. By order entered on September 1, 2005, the Court granted preliminary approval of the proposed settlement and directed that notice of the terms of the proposed settlement be provided to class members. Thereafter, the court held a fairness hearing, on April 24, 2006, at which objections to the proposed settlement were heard. The Court has yet to issue a ruling on the motion for final approval. On December 5, 2006, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the Court's order certifying a class in six test cases that were selected by the underwriter defendants and plaintiffs in the coordinated proceeding. The plaintiffs have filed a petition seeking rehearing of the Second Circuit's class certification ruling, and the District Court has ordered that all activity in the consolidated proceeding before it, including consideration of the proposed settlement, will be stayed pending the ruling on whether to entertain the petition for rehearing. Dynabazaar was not party to one of the test cases, and it is unclear what impact, if any, the Second Circuit's class certification ruling will have on our case or the viability of the proposed settlement. In the event the settlement is not finalized, the Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to plaintiffs' claims and intends to defend the action vigorously. 8 The expense of defending this litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending Dynabazaar may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENT, AGREEMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE IN CONTROL OF DYNABAZAAR, WHICH COULD HINDER STOCKHOLDERS' ABILITY TO RECEIVE A PREMIUM FOR OUR STOCK. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or merger that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: o authorizing the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval; o providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; o limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; o prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and o requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Certain provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us, and our agreements with certain of our customers may require that we give prior notice of a change of control and grant certain rights following a change of control. WE EXPECT TO EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY IN OUR STOCK PRICE, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT STOCKHOLDERS' INVESTMENTS. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: o macroeconomic conditions; o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; o changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; o announcements of financial results by us or other security companies; o announcements by us, our competitors, customers, or similar businesses of significant technical innovations, contracts, mergers, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; o comments made by third-party market observers that may impact investment decisions of investors; o additions or departures of key personnel; o sales by Dynabazaar of common stock or convertible securities; o incurring debt; and o other risk factors detailed in this section. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of how the business performs. 9 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 