D. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are substantially dependent on one product. Substantially all of our revenue comes from the sale of cast resin transformers, and we expect this pattern to continue. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the demand for this product. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to demand our current product or that we will be successful in marketing any new or enhanced products. If our competitors produce new products that are superior to our cast resin transformers in performance or price, demand for our product may decline. A decline in demand for our cast resin transformers as a result of competition, technological change, economic conditions in China, restrictions on our ability to market this product or other factors would reduce our total revenues and harm our ability to maintain profitability. Our growth may be slow if the demand for electric power in China does not continue to remain strong. Demand for our products is linked closely to increased demand for electrical power in China. While such demand has experienced strong growth over the past several years, there can be no assurance that such growth will continue. Any material decline in the use of electricity in China is likely to adversely impact our business. Our operating revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. A significant portion of our operating revenues are concentrated among our largest customers. Sales to our five largest customers in the aggregate for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, and 2007 accounted for approximately 16.00%, 16.00%, and 23.00% respectively, of our total sales. Sales to our largest customer for those same periods accounted for approximately 5.00%, 6.30%, and 9.60% of our total sales respectively. We cannot assure you that any of our principal customers will maintain their volume of business with us or that a similar volume of business will be forthcoming from new or existing customers to replace any lost business. The loss of one or more of these existing principal customers without replacement by a customer of similar volume could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 6 We sell all of our reactors to one large original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, and any significant decrease of sales of reactors to this large OEM would have a negative effect on the revenues we receive from the sale of reactors. In 2007, revenue derived from the sale of reactors accounted for approximately 5% of our total revenue, or approximately $5.6 million. Presently, we sell all of our reactors to one large OEM. This is in contrast to a more diversified customer base for our cast resin transformers. Any significant decrease in the sale of reactors to this large OEM could have a material adverse effect on revenue derived from the sale of reactors. In addition, if we fail to collect large accounts receivable from this large OEM, we could be subject to significant financial exposure. If we lose our key personnel, our ability to operate our company and our results of operations may suffer. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to retain key members of our management, who are familiar with our business and the potential markets in which our business competes. We do not have “key person” or similar insurance on any of these individuals. If we lose their services or the services of key personnel, our financial results or business prospects may be harmed. Additionally, our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and retain sales, marketing, and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to manage our operations effectively. Competition for experienced executives from numerous companies may limit our ability to hire or retain personnel on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, the employment of non-citizens may be restricted by applicable immigration laws. If any of our current suppliers delay, interrupt, or halt supply to us we could be forced to obtain our raw materials at higher prices from alternative sources. The principal raw materials we require for our business are (1) silicon steel, which forms the core of our transformers, (2) copper and aluminum foil and wire, which wind around the core to form the coil, and (3) cast resin and electric isolation material, which serve as the insulation medium between coils. Prevailing prices for such commodities are subject to fluctuations due to changes in supply and demand and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as global political and economic conditions. Historically, prices for some of these raw materials have been volatile and unpredictable, and such volatility is expected to continue. Therefore, commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material costs, and we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volumes, revenues or operating income. We do not hedge against changes in commodity prices. We maintain at least two suppliers for each of the principal raw materials in order to enhance our ability to obtain an adequate supply of high quality, competitively-priced raw materials. We usually keep a two or three month supply of these raw materials in our inventory. In 2007, the raw materials used in our products were supplied by two principal suppliers. However, if our suppliers fail to supply these raw materials to us for any reason, including due to adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, and/or due to unexpected demand, labor shortages or disputes, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 Increased competition with other large and small transformer manufacturers may result in reduced prices and loss of market share. The market for cast resin transformers is highly competitive and we expect increased competition in the future. We primarily compete with several large transformer manufacturers as well as a number of small transformer manufacturers. Most of our major competitors are partially government owned entities and some have greater name recognition and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, and marketing capabilities than we do. Our future success will largely depend on our marketing efforts and ability to expand our production capacity. Although price has historically not been a major factor in competing against other cast resin transformer manufacturers, it does remain a factor in competing against oil-filled transformer manufacturers and other more traditional, less expensive transformer devices. Increased competition may result in price reductions or loss of market share, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the transformer market in China include, in order of significance, product reputation, product performance and safety, product quality, marketing expertise, and product price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or new competitors. China’s accession into the World Trade Organization has gradually eased, and may continue to ease, restrictions on foreign ownership in our industry and may increase competition in the markets in which we compete. On December 11, 2001, China officially joined the World Trade Organization, or the WTO. This has led and may continue to lead to increased foreign investment in mainland China, which may in turn increase competition and foreign participation in the markets in which we compete. As a result of China’s entry into the WTO, we may have additional competitors in China such as ABB, Siemens, and Alstom. These and other potential competitors in China and elsewhere have and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased competition and foreign participation may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our business and prospects. If we are unable to maintain our expertise in manufacturing processes or identify new technologies as they arise we will be unable to compete successfully. The electrical transformer industry may be subject to changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and innovative product introductions. For example, we believe that power distribution solutions for alternative energy sources, including technologies that harness wind and solar energy, hold promising opportunities for future growth. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new technologies as they arise and develop and bring new products and services to the market in a timely manner or that products, services or technologies developed by others will not render our products, services, or technologies noncompetitive, obsolete, or less marketable. We may face product liability claims that may result in costly litigation and divert attention of our management. Our business exposes us to liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of potentially dangerous electrical equipment. Consistent with industry practice in China, we do not currently maintain product liability insurance on our products. If a litigant were successful against us it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations 8 and liquidity. Additionally, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our market reputation which could result in a decline in demand for our products. We may be subject to trademark infringement claims by third parties that could subject us to financial liability or limit our product offerings, and our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. We own the rights to the trademark “JST,” which is registered with the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce in China. We believe that much of our success in growing sales and market share is due to our focus on providing high quality products and services. Achieving greater customer recognition of our trademark is also important to our marketing and expansion effort. However, with regard to our current trademark or any future trademarks, we cannot be sure that any one or all of the following scenarios has not occurred or will not occur, any one of which could have a material adverse effect upon us: • we are unable to register other names or service marks that we may consider important; • our currently registered trademark or any future registered trademark currently does or will violate the proprietary rights of others; • our trademarks are not upheld by the Chinese government or its judicial system if challenged; • we are prevented from using our trademarks; or • because enforcing our proprietary rights or defending against the ownership claims of others may be extremely costly, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. We have not protected our intellectual property rights outside of China and we cannot be certain that countries will protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of China. We may be subject to patent infringement claims by third parties that could subject us to financial liability or limit our product offerings. We own the rights to four Chinese utility model patent certificates and one invention application pending in China. The four Chinese utility model patent certificates covers aspects of our cast resin technology and our transformers, including coil windings. The pending invention application is directed to a triangular transformer core structure. To date, we have not filed for patent protection outside of China. The Chinese utility model patent certificates and pending application provide some protection of our technology in China, but they do not provide protection outside of China. We currently hold a license from Schneider Electric (China) Investment Co. Ltd. (“Schneider Electric”), a leading manufacturer of circuit breakers, to the use of its breaker technology, and have developed low- and medium-voltage switchgear products from this licensing arrangement. If our arrangement with Schneider Electric may fail, or expire without renewal, we could be prevented from selling these products. We may not be able to enter into another license arrangement, or one on commercially reasonable terms, to the use of similar breaker technology or be able to redesign our product to avoid infringement. Any required modification of our products or development of new products could harm our business. 9 Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, you may not be able to enforce judgments against us that are obtained in United States courts. We are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or to enforce against us judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by British Virgin Islands counsel that judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and that there is doubt as to whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations We may be subject to the political, economic and other uncertainties of China, which is a socialist state controlled by the Communist Party of China. Because we are a foreign company conducting our operations and owning assets primarily in China, our operations and assets are subject to political, economic, legal and other uncertainties which affect companies operating in China. China is a socialist state which since 1949 has been controlled by the Communist Party of China. Changes in the top political leadership of the Chinese government may have a significant impact on policy and the political and economic environment in China. Furthermore, because economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in some provinces than in others, the continuation or increase of these economic disparities could affect political or social stability in China. China is considered to be a high risk nation for business and investment in the Asian region. Although China recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activity, the government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every aspect of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Therefore, government action in the future, including any decision by the Chinese government not to continue to support the economic reform program that it commenced in the late 1970’s and the possible return of China to the more centrally-planned economy that existed prior to the economic reforms, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China and on our operations. China’s economic reform plan was designed to bring into China foreign investment capital and technological advancements. The result of these reforms has been a move towards a more mixed economy and away from a more centrally-planned economy. The process of shifting more responsibility for various aspects of economic enterprise to local management and regional authorities continues, even though the system of Chinese socialism still involves considerable influence by the central government in economic areas of production and marketing. The economy of China differs from most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development or OECD, in structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation, and balance of payments position. China’s economy is managed in part through a series of five-year economic and social development plans, each “Five-Year Plan” is formulated by the State Council and approved by the National People’s Congress and sets the overall agricultural, industrial, financial and other economic and social development targets. In implementing each Five-Year Plan, the State Planning Commission, a commission directly under the State Council, establishes annual production and development targets, formulates and 10 supervises the implementation of annual plans designed to achieve those targets, and approves major economic projects. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government, in the past several years the Chinese government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization, the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy, and the encouragement of private economic activity. Such economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual and we may not be able to capitalize on all such reforms. Further, there can be no assurance that the Chinese government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time or that business operations in China would not become subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of investments in China. Since 1978, the Chinese government has been reforming its economic systems. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to change as the government seeks to refine and improve them. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Although reforms to China’s economic system have not adversely impacted our operations in the past and are not expected to adversely impact our operations in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that the reforms to China’s economic system will continue or that we will not be adversely affected by changes in the China’s political, economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretations or enforcement thereof), measures which may be introduced to control ownership of Chinese businesses by non-Chinese companies or investors, control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. Our operating results may also be significantly affected by the inadequate development of an infrastructure for power plants and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, satisfactory roads, communications abilities and raw materials and parts. The Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, but such growth has been uneven among various geographical regions and sectors of the economy. The Chinese government implemented various policies from time to time, including, but not limited to, the periods from 1989 to 1991 and again commencing in 1993, to restrain the rate of economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. Although we do not expect such policies to impact our operations, we may benefit from these types of policies or, on the other hand, more severe measures or other actions by the Chinese government not currently expected could decrease demand for our products and adversely affect our earnings. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had in general, a positive effect on the economic development of China, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn adversely affect our stock price. Changes in China’s present policy of economic reform and economic protection for foreign investment enterprises could harm our operating results. As part of its economic reforms, China has designated certain areas as Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”) or Economic and Technological Development Zones (“EDZs”). Foreign investment enterprises in these areas generally benefit from greater economic autonomy and advantageous tax treatment in China. The Chinese government has designated Hainan Province, where we maintain our principal executive offices and manufacturing facilities, as a SEZ. We are currently building a second manufacturing facility in 11 an EDZ located in the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province. Although we are not aware of any pending or proposed changes in the policies or laws governing SEZs or EDZs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, there can be no assurance that such changes will not occur. We are subject to government regulation and our operating results could be affected by changes in those regulations. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political uncertainty. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by policy changes made by the Chinese government to any of the following: • laws and regulations generally, or their interpretation and enforcement thereof, • governmental imposition of restrictive measures intended to reduce inflation, increase taxes, or reform unprofitable state-owned enterprises, • confiscatory or increased taxation, • restrictions on currency conversion and currency devaluations, • regulations of Chinese businesses owned by non-Chinese companies or investment in such businesses by non-Chinese investors, • imports, import duties, and sources of supply, • the expropriation of private enterprise, or • inadequate development of China’s infrastructure, transportation and communications. Under its current governmental leadership, China has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. We can provide no assurance that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, that these policies will be successful if pursued or will not be significantly altered without notice, or that business operations would not become subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of any investment in China. Our headquarters and primary manufacturing facility are located in Hainan province, which has been designated a SEZ by the Chinese government. Our second manufacturing facility is being built in an EDZ in Wuhan, China. The National People’s Congress has delegated rulemaking authority to the State Council and the State Administration of Taxation. Local governments may continue to offer tax incentives to attract investment. For Hainan Jinpan, the applicable corporate income tax rate is 18% for fiscal year 2008. This rate will increase by increments of 2% per year, on average, until the tax rate reaches 25% in 2012. Presently, we enjoy preferential tax treatment in Wuhan. Wuhan Jinpan will not be subject to corporate income tax for 2008 and 2009. From 2010 to 2012, the corporate income tax applicable to Wuhan Jinpan would be half of the prevailing rate. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will continue to offer preferential tax treatment to foreign funded companies operating out of SEZs and EDZs. The Chinese government regulates the import into China of various raw materials and also taxes some types of imported capital equipment, which may affect our operations. The approval of imports by the Chinese government is based to some extent on the lack of qualified domestically-produced products and 12 on its strategic plans for the development of local Chinese industries. We can provide no assurance that China’s policies will continue to allow raw materials needed by our operations to be imported into China or will not impose import fees, which may raise the cost of raw materials or capital equipment used in our operations. The imposition of any of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Despite continued economic reforms, we cannot assure you that the Chinese economy, upon which our products rely for growth, will continue to grow as it recently has done. China has operated a centrally-planned economy since 1949. Since 1978, China has implemented a series of economic reform programs in an effort to revitalize its economy and improve living standards, including the implementation of policies designed to attract foreign investment and technology. Based on figures published by the National Bureau of Statistics of China (“NBS”), China’s GDP grew at an average annual rate of 20% from 1978 to 2006. According to NBS, China’s GDP in 2007 was 24.66 trillion RMB, an increase of 11.40% over the previous year. 2007 marked the fifth consecutive year that China’s GDP recorded double digit growth. NBS data show that China’s GDP in 2003, 2004, 2005, and 2006 grew by 11.40%, 15.00%, 13.00%, and 12.80% respectively. There is no assurance that the Chinese economy will continue to grow at such rates and if it fails to do so our business may be adversely affected. Despite recent reforms, we may be adversely affected by China’s unsophisticated legal system and it may be difficult to enforce our legal rights under Chinese law and for third parties to enforce the laws of the United States or any other state in China. China’s legal system is a civil law system, which is based on written statutes, and court decisions do not carry precedential value. China does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing corporations in general or foreign investment enterprises in particular. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion in individual cases. As China’s legal system develops, we, like other foreign business entities, may be adversely affected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or new interpretations or enforcement of the laws) and preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. In addition, in circumstances where adequate laws do exist, it still may not be possible for us to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of our legal rights under Chinese law. Moreover, because certain directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process upon these non-residents in the United States or to enforce United States judgments against them in China’s courts. There is uncertainty as to whether China’s courts would enforce: • judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or these non-resident directors and officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • in original actions brought in the People’s Republic of China, liabilities against us or these non-resident directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Also, since a majority or our assets are located in China, it may be difficult for an investor who obtains a judgment in the United States or another state to enforce such foreign judgment in China. Such judgment may be further limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. 13 Our facilities are subject to Chinese environmental regulations that expose us to potential liability. Environmental protection in China is regulated in accordance with the Environmental Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China, which became effective on December 26, 1989. This law sets national standards for environmental quality and monitoring as well as for the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections. We have passed our most recent inspection and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws. In September 2000, we also obtained ISO 14001 certification from the Environmental Management Certification Center for the Machinery Industry. The expansion of our operations internationally may be adversely affected by economic, political, legal and other uncertainties of some foreign countries. Although we sell products to customers based principally in China, we are doing business in the U.S. and seek to do business in other countries as well. In the future, our operations and sales outside of China may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect companies operating in China and Chinese companies doing business outside of China: • political and economic risks, including political instability, • currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations, • regulations of Chinese businesses owned by non-Chinese companies or investment in such businesses by non-Chinese investors • changes in import/export regulations, tariff and freight rates, and • various forms of protectionist trade legislation which currently exist or have been proposed in some foreign countries. We receive our revenues in Renminbi, which experiences volatility in its exchange rates to certain foreign currencies and may adversely affect our financial performance. We receive almost all of our revenues in Renminbi. The Chinese government imposes control over our foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency and through restrictions on foreign imports. As a result, Renminbi is not freely convertible into foreign currencies. The Renminbi exchange rate to some other currencies can also be volatile. Yet, we are required to meet foreign currency obligations such as for future purchases of certain equipment and raw materials from Germany. As a result, we face two risks: first, where our revenues are translated into other currencies, the translated revenue may reflect volatility due to the volatility of each rate; and second, we may face higher than anticipated costs for purchases which are required to be made in other currencies. Effective as of December 1, 1996, Renminbi has become fully convertible for all current account transactions. Foreign currency, which is required for current account transactions, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, so long as the procedural requirements prescribed by law are met. Payment of dividends to foreign investors holding equity interests in Chinese companies, including Foreign Investment Enterprises such as Hainan Jinpan, Jinpan China, is considered a current account transaction. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks. Purchase of foreign currency for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. 14 Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial performance because of our foreign currency denominated liabilities and may materially adversely affect the value, translated or converted as applicable into United States dollars, of our net fixed assets, our earnings and our declared dividends. We currently do not engage in any hedging activities in order to minimize the effect of exchange rate risks. Future inflation in China may inhibit economic activity in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and China has experienced deflation as low as minus 2.2%. These factors have led the Chinese government to adopt, from time to time, various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. According to the National Development and Reform Commission of China, in 2007, the general level of consumer prices in China was up by 4.8% over the previous year. Of this total, the prices for food items were up 12.3%. The retail prices of commodities were up by 3.8 %, while the producers’ prices for manufactured goods increased by 3.1%, and the purchasing prices for raw materials, fuels and power went up by 4.4 %. The prices for investment in fixed assets were up 3.9%. Producers’ prices of farm products were up by 18.5%. The sales prices for housing in 70 large and medium cities were up by 7.6 %. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby adversely affect the market for our products. Any future outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In late 2002 and the first half of 2003, China and certain other countries and regions experienced an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that the SARS outbreak had been contained. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have recently encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that avian flu may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to Penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies and certain non-U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China and other foreign countries. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We may have difficulty in establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. Chinese companies have in some cases, been resistant to the adoption of Western styles of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which include sufficient corporate governance, internal controls and, computer, financial and other control systems. In addition, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards with respect to future acquisitions. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We may experience volatility in our share price, which could negatively affect your investment, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of other similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and • future sales of common shares. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our share price to fall regardless of our performance. Shares eligible for future sale may depress our share price. As of December 31, 2007, we had 8,186,617 common shares outstanding, of which 2,776,912 shares were held by affiliates and, in addition, 151,250 common shares were subject to outstanding options granted under our share option plan, of which 151,250 shares were vested as of December 31, 2007. All of the common shares held by our affiliates are restricted or control securities eligible for resale under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. The common shares issuable upon exercise of the share options have been registered under the Securities Act. Sales of common shares under Rule 144 or another exemption under the Securities Act or pursuant to a registration statement could have a material 16 adverse effect on the price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. Future issuance of additional common shares could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our share price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue 20,000,000 common shares. The potential issuance of such additional common shares may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. We may also issue additional common shares or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common shares for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, your rights as a shareholder may be less clearly established as compared to the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum of association and articles of association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Under British Virgin Islands corporate law, we may negate or modify the three basic rights of shareholders (the right to vote, the right to an equal share in any dividend paid and the right to an equal share in any distribution of our surplus assets). Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our controlling shareholder than they would have as shareholders of a company incorporated in another jurisdiction. We may not continue to pay cash dividends in the future. We cannot assure that we will continue to pay cash dividends or if we do, that we will do so at the current rate. We may elect at any time to retain all future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. Any future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, the availability of a surplus and other factors. We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our common shares during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The same adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences will apply to U.S. investors who acquire our common shares during the current taxable year of 2008 or any subsequent taxable year if we are treated as a PFIC for that taxable year. 17 The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. 