Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. If our new Open Mobile Platform does not achieve market acceptance or customer adoption and deployment of our Open Mobile Platform is slow, our ability to grow our Enterprise Mobility Services business could be harmed. In 2010, we released a new cloud-based platform for the delivery of our enterprise mobility services. The future success of our business will depend in large part on our current and prospective customers’ acceptance of our Open Mobile Platform and enterprise mobility services, as well as the timeliness of our customers’ adoption and deployment of our Open Mobile Platform. Key risks associated with our Open Mobile Platform and services are as follows: Our Open Mobile Platform may not have all functionality desired by our customers. There is risk that we may not release versions of the Open Mobile Platform in a timely manner that contain features that our customers desire and we will need to provide our customers with stable, easy to use, feature-rich and valuable enterprise mobility services related to security, policy control and reporting. Further, the Open Mobile Platform may contain bugs or errors that would cause our customers to not adopt or delay the adoption of the Open Mobile Platform. In addition, the Open Mobile Platform and our supporting IT infrastructure may have technological limitations or errors that could result in our enterprise mobility services not meeting our customers’ requirements. If some or all of these risks associated with our Open Mobile Platform were to occur, market acceptance of the platform may not occur and our business could be harmed. Customer adoption and deployment of our Open Mobile Platform may be slow. We believe that the growth of our business is dependent on the timely adoption and deployment of the Open Mobile Platform by our customers. A material delay in the adoption and deployment of the Open Mobile Platform by our customers will delay our ability to bill for our services and adversely impact our ability to grow revenues and achieve profitability. Customer deployment of our Open Mobile Platform may not result in increased use of our services. We believe it is important to the future success of our business that users of our enterprise mobility services increase their usage of our platform and network services. We believe that the deployment by our customers of our Open Mobile Platform will lead to increased usage of our platform services and correspondingly, our network services, which will lead to an increase in our revenue. However, even if a significant portion of our customers deploy our Open Mobile Platform, there is no guarantee that our customers will use our services more frequently. Customers must be willing to continue to pay for our platform in order for us to generate meaningful revenues and growth. We believe that it is important that the value proposition of our Open Mobile Platform is accepted by our customers such that they are willing to pay for their users to use our enterprise mobility services. If our customers are willing to adopt our Open Mobile Platform but are not willing to pay for the platform, our ability to grow revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely impacted. In 2011 we introduced new OMX service offerings targeted at mobile network operators, telecommunication carriers and service provider partners. If OMX service offerings do not achieve market acceptance our ability to grow our business could be harmed. Our OMX service offerings were introduced in 2011 and incorporate our Open Mobile Platform, global authentication fabric, and Wi-Fi network to provide mobile network operators, telecommunication carriers and 15 Table of Contents service provider partners around the world with the infrastructure to offer their customers new mobility services. We have and plan to continue to devote significant resources building our OMX service line of business. If OMX service offerings do not achieve market acceptance and generate meaningful revenue our financial condition may be harmed. If our services for smartphones and other mobile handheld devices do not achieve market acceptance our ability to grow our business may be impaired. Smartphone and tablet devices are becoming more relied upon by our customers for their mobile computing needs and may cause our users to stop using laptops while traveling, or to use them less often. Over the past year, we have developed new Wi-Fi services for smartphones, tablets and handheld devices. If these services do not achieve market acceptance, our ability to grow revenues and achieve profitability could be adversely impacted. If demand for mobility services does not grow or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, we may experience a decline in revenues and profitability. The growth of our business is dependent, in part, upon the increased use of mobility services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. If the demand for mobility services does not continue to grow, or grows in ways that do not require use of our services, then we may not be able to grow our business, or achieve or maintain profitability. Increased usage of our mobility services depends on numerous factors, including: • Willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures; • Availability of security services necessary to ensure data privacy over a variety of networks; • Quality, cost and functionality of our services and competing services; • Increased adoption of wireless broadband access methods and our ability to support these new methods; • Proliferation of smartphones, tablets and mobile handheld devices and related applications, and our ability to provide valuable services and support for those devices; and • Our ability to partner with mobile network operators and service providers that are willing to stimulate consumer awareness and adoption of our mobility services. If key global Wi-Fi venues offer “no charge” Internet access, our network revenues could be negatively affected. We derive a significant portion of our network revenue from providing Wi-Fi access in certain key venues (e.g., hotels, airports and cafes). In general, these venues charge their customers for Wi-Fi access. If these venues begin offering Wi-Fi access at no charge, the amount we can charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these venues will likely decrease or we may not charge our customers for Wi-Fi access at these venues. For example, Starbucks and certain airports in the United States have ceased charging their customers for Wi-Fi access and we have experienced reduced revenues as a result. If this trend continues at other key Wi-Fi venues, our network revenues and overall profitability may be negatively impacted. If we do not accurately predict network usage for our Flat Rate price plans, our costs could increase without a corresponding increase in network revenue. A significant number of our customers have purchased our Flat Rate network price plans, and we are signing new customers to this plan. In this plan, our customers pay a flat rate price to access our network services. However, in the majority of situations we continue to pay our providers based on network usage. The rate we charge in our Flat Rate price plans is based on statistical predictions of usage across a pool of 16 Table of Contents users within a customer. If actual usage is higher than expected our ability to achieve profitability could be negatively impacted. Our network revenue and overall profitability may be adversely impacted by material reductions in existing customer and partner minimum commitments. Our customers and partners that are billed on a usage basis have traditionally entered into contractual provisions that require them to pay the greater of the fees generated from the use of our services or a minimum committed amount over a pre-determined time period. Recent global economic conditions in certain cases caused our customers and partners to generate fees from the use of our services that are significantly less than their minimum committed amounts. Consequently this shortfall has caused some partners and customers upon renewal of their contracts with us, to renew with a lower minimum commitment and in some cases with no minimum commitment. Additionally, in some cases partners and customers are requesting a re-evaluation of their minimum commitments on a prospective basis during the term of their existing contract; to maintain these commercial relationships, we have addressed these requests on a contract by contract basis. The reduction or elimination of minimum commitments means that a larger percentage of future revenue will be based on the actual usage of our services and may result in a decrease in our revenues and our ability to achieve profitability could be negatively impacted. If we are unable to meet the challenges posed by broadband access, our ability to profitably grow our business may be impaired. A substantial portion of the growth of our business has depended, and will continue to depend, in part upon our ability to expand our global network by addressing broadband access technologies, such as Wi-Fi, 3G and other future wireless technologies. Such an expansion may not result in additional revenues to us. Key challenges in expanding the broadband elements of our network include: The broadband access market continues to develop at a rapid pace. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from wireless broadband “hotspots,” such as certain airports, hotels and convention centers. The broadband access market, particularly for wireless access, continues to develop rapidly, in particular: the market for enterprise connectivity services through broadband is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and there is currently no uniform standard for wireless access. Furthermore, although the use of wireless frequencies generally does not require a license in the United States and abroad, if Wi-Fi frequencies become subject to licensing requirements, or are otherwise restricted, this would substantially impair the growth of wireless access. Some large telecommunications providers and other stakeholders that pay large sums of money to license other portions of the wireless spectrum may seek to have the Wi-Fi spectrum become subject to licensing restrictions. If the broadband wireless access market develops in ways that limit access growth, our ability to generate substantial revenues from broadband wireless access could be harmed. The broadband service provider market is highly fragmented. There are currently many wired and wireless broadband service providers that provide coverage in only one or a small number of hotspots. We have entered into contractual relationships with numerous broadband service providers. These contracts generally have an initial term of two years or less. We must continue to develop relationships with many providers on terms commercially acceptable to us in order to provide adequate coverage for our customers’ mobile workers and to expand our broadband coverage. We may also be required to develop additional technologies in order to integrate new broadband services into our service offering. If we are unable to develop these relationships or technologies, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. In addition, if broadband service providers consolidate, our negotiating leverage with providers may decrease, resulting in increased rates for access, which could harm our operating results. Broadband pricing can vary in different geographies or markets. For our network services to be attractive to our customers, the cost of 3G/4G roaming must be significantly greater than the cost of our Wi-Fi network 17 Table of Contents services. Currently, in certain geographies such as Asia, 3G/4G roaming prices are not significantly higher than our rates for Wi-Fi access. If 3G/4G roaming prices do not remain significantly higher than our Wi-Fi network prices then our ability to sell our network services could be impacted. Broadband service provider actions may restrict our ability to sell our services. Some network providers restrict our ability to sell access to their networks to our resellers whom they consider competitive with them. This can reduce our revenue by limiting the footprint our partners can make available to their customers. Significant dependency with a single network provider could negatively affect our revenues. There are certain venues (hotels, airports, cafes, etc.) globally where we depend on a single provider for network access in those venues. In addition, in certain geographies we depend on a small number of providers for a large portion of network access. If such a provider were to go out of business or terminate their agreement with us, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability if we cannot find an alternative provider to provide network access in those venues or geographies. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry may impair our ability to provide redundant and expanded network service coverage and negotiate favorable network access terms. The telecommunications industry is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. These factors may result in certain network service providers having poor operating results. As a result, some of these service providers have consolidated and are working to consolidate or otherwise cease operations, which would reduce the number of network service providers from which we are able to obtain network access. If consolidation continues to occur, we will have a smaller number of network service providers to acquire network access from and we may not be able to provide additional or sufficient redundant access points in some geographic areas, which could diminish our ability to provide broad, reliable, redundant coverage. Further, our ability to negotiate favorable access rates from network service providers could be impaired, which could increase our network access expenses and harm our operating results. We face competition in the market for mobility services, which could make it difficult for us to succeed. While we do not believe there are service providers in the mobility services market that offer a platform or range of services in an integrated offering as we do, we compete with a variety of service providers, including facilities-based carriers, cloud-based platform operators and mobility management solution providers. Some of these providers have substantially greater resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories and/or greater name recognition than we have. In addition, we face the following challenges: Many of our competitors can compete on price. Because many of our facilities-based competitors own and operate physical networks they may be able to provide additional hotspot access at little incremental cost to them. As a result, they may offer network access services at a lower cost, and may be willing to discount or subsidize network access services to capture other sources of revenue. In contrast, we have traditionally purchased network access from facilities-based network service providers to enable our network access service and in these cases, may not be able to compete aggressively on price. In addition, new cloud-based platform operators may enter the mobility services market and compete on price. In either case, we may lose business or be forced to lower our prices to compete, which could reduce our revenues. Many of our competitors offer additional services that we do not, which enables them to bundle these services and compete favorably against us. Some of our competitors provide services that we do not, such as: local exchange and long distance services, voicemail and digital subscriber line, or DSL, services. Potential customers that desire these services on a bundled basis may choose to subscribe to network access from a competitor that provides these additional services. 18 Table of Contents Our potential customers may have unrelated business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large facilities-based carriers that purchase substantial amounts of services or provide other services or goods unrelated to network access services. As a result, if a potential customer is also a supplier to one of our large competitors, or purchases unrelated services or goods from our competitor, the potential customer may be motivated to purchase its network access services from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance its business relationship with that competitor. In addition, our current or potential carrier customers may already have or may consider buying services from mobility management solution providers which may impact our ability to sell our services to those customers as well as drive market prices down for the services that we offer. Users may take advantage of free Wi-Fi networks for Internet and corporate access. Telecommunications providers may offer free Wi-Fi as part of a home broadband or other service contract, which may force down the prices which the market will bear for our services and could reduce our revenues. We face strong competition in the market for managed network services, which could make it difficult for us to grow. In the market for managed network services, we compete with a variety of large connectivity service providers, many of whom own their own networks. We see the competition from these larger service providers, which own their own networks, in two primary ways: first in that they can provide a broader range of network options (MPLS, Frame Relay, Wire line and Wireless Voice, etc.) and, second, they can integrate their separate products providing cross-product subsidization. There are also small regional players with a similar model to ours who compete with us. If we are not able to offer competitively priced offerings that are profitable for us, we may have difficulty growing our managed network services business. If we fail to address market requirements, evolving standards and technological changes in the mobility services industry, our business could be harmed. The market for mobility services and mobile devices (laptops, smartphones, tablets and handhelds devices) is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and rapid technological change; including; new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems. In developing and introducing our services, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which features, security standards, performance criteria, access methods, devices, applications and operating systems will be required or desired by enterprises and their mobile workers. If we implement technological changes or specifications that are different from those required or desired, or if we are unable to successfully integrate required or desired technological changes or specifications into our services, market acceptance of our services may be significantly reduced or delayed and our business could be harmed. If our carrier and channel partners do not successfully market our mobility services to their customers, then our ability to grow our revenues could be impaired. We sell our services directly through our sales force and indirectly through our channel partners, which include telecommunication carriers, systems integrators and value-added resellers. A large percentage of our sales outside the United States are made through our carrier and channel partners. Our business depends on the efforts and the success of these carrier and channel partners in marketing our services to their customers. Our own ability to promote our services directly to our carrier and channel partners’ customers is often limited. Many of our carrier and channel partners may offer services to their customers that may be similar to, or competitive with, our services. Therefore, these channel partners may not actively promote our services. If our channel partners fail to market our services effectively, our ability to grow our revenue could be reduced and our business may be impaired. 19 Table of Contents Our software is complex and may contain errors that could damage our reputation and decrease usage of our services. Our software may contain errors that interrupt network access or have other unintended consequences. If network access is disrupted due to a software error, or if any other unintended negative results occur, such as the loss of billing information, a security breach, unauthorized access to our cloud-based platform or the introduction of a virus by our software onto our customers’ computers or networks, our reputation could be harmed and our business may suffer. Our contracts generally limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages and to the extent possible; we further limit our exposure by entering into insurance policies that are designed to protect our customers and us from these and other types of losses. If these contract provisions are not enforced or enforceable, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our customers which directly impacts our business and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend on our customers having adequate resources to purchase our services. Poor global economic conditions adversely impact our customers and potential customers. For instance, the instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign and non-sovereign debt issues in certain countries may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. These conditions cause our customers to alter their purchasing and payment activities in response to deterioration in their businesses, lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and under these circumstances our customers may reduce, delay or terminate purchases of, and payment for, our services. Poor economic conditions may cause certain of our current and prospective customers to merge with others, or cut expenditures, which may result in less demand for our services. In addition, poor economic conditions generally result in decreased business travel which results in decreased demand for our services. If we are unable to protect against these events or adequately respond to changes in demand resulting from deteriorating market and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Because a meaningful portion of our business is international, we encounter additional risks, which may impact our revenues and profitability. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international customers. Revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States were approximately 42% of our revenues in 2011, of which approximately 32% and 9% were generated in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions, respectively. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar and we currently bill nearly all of our services in U.S. Dollars. However, we pay expenses in local currencies. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we have not entered into any hedging contracts to manage foreign currency exposure. Our international operations subject our business to specific risks that could negatively impact our business, including: • Generally longer payment cycles for foreign customers; • The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on both the attractiveness of our USD-based pricing and our operating results, particularly upon the re-measurement of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the transactional settlement of outstanding local currency liabilities. • High taxes in some foreign jurisdictions; • Difficulty in complying with Internet and data privacy related regulations in foreign jurisdictions; • Difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting these rights; and • Ability to efficiently deploy capital and generate returns in foreign jurisdictions. 20 Table of Contents We may be exposed to credit risk, collection risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable. A substantial majority of our outstanding accounts receivables are not secured. Our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our services . While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our collection risk and avoid losses. In addition, under poor global economic conditions, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our cash balances may impede our ability to make acquisitions or aggressively fund growth initiatives. We had cash and cash equivalents of $25.4 million at December 31, 2011. Although we believe that we have sufficient cash to operate our business, we may not have significant cash with which to acquire additional technologies or other businesses if the opportunities arise. Further, if our cash flows continue to remain negative, we will have less cash to support operations through any period of significant negative cash flow, which could cause us to have to decrease our expenditures on research and development and in other areas, which could negatively affect our business. Our sales cycles are lengthy and could require us to incur substantial costs that may not result in related revenues. Our business is characterized by a lengthy sales cycle. Once a contract with a customer is signed there is typically an extended period before the customer’s end users actually begin to use our services, which is when we begin to realize revenues. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer which may not result in any revenues in the near term. Even if we enter into a contract, we may have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales efforts increase and, we are not successful in our sales efforts, or we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner; our operating results could be harmed. Security and privacy concerns related to Internet-based services could reduce demand for our services. The secure transmission of confidential information when using Internet-based services is extremely important to our customers. Security and authentication concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information, such as corporate access passwords, and cybersecurity risks, including the ability of hackers to penetrate online security systems may reduce the demand for our services. Further, new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems have also introduced additional vulnerabilities which have been actively exploited by hackers. Internet-based worms and viruses, and computer programs that are created to slow Internet traffic or disrupt computer networks or files are examples of events or computer programs that can disrupt users from using our services and reduce demand for our services, potentially affecting our business and financial performance. Furthermore, any well-publicized compromises of confidential information may reduce demand for Internet-based services, including our services. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s internal network, our cloud-based platform may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. It is imperative for our customers that access to their mission critical data is secure. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the security measures that we have engineered into our network for the authentication of the end user’s credentials. These measures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to our customers’ networks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to 21 Table of Contents anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our services, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. We rely significantly on information technology to accurately bill our customers and any failure, inadequacy or interruption of that technology could negatively impact our ability to report on our financial performance on a timely basis. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the timely and accurate furnishing of monthly detail billing records of activity on our network, rated for the agreements in place with both our customers and our suppliers. Our ability to meet these billing requirements, as well as to effectively manage and maintain our books and records and internal reporting requirements, depends significantly on our internal information technology. In the second half of 2011 we began efforts to migrate to a new enterprise resource planning system to enable us to more efficiently scale these accounting, billing, and reporting requirements. The failure to implement when planned, or the failure of this new system to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security of this system could cause delays in billing and reduced efficiency of our operations, or negatively impact our system of internal controls over financial reporting, any of which could require significant capital investments to remediate. If licenses to third party technologies do not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected. We license technologies from several software providers that are incorporated into our services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. Licenses to third party technologies may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. The loss of the right to use these technologies or other technologies that we license could have an adverse effect on our services and increase our costs or cause interruptions or delays in our services until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into our services. Litigation arising out of intellectual property infringement could be expensive and disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our services do not, or will not, infringe upon patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. Any claim of infringement of proprietary rights of others, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Successful claims against us may result in an injunction or substantial monetary liability, which in either case could significantly impact our results of operations or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are enjoined from using a technology, we will need to obtain a license to use the technology, but licenses to third-party technology may not be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. Government regulation of, and legal uncertainties regarding, the Internet could harm our business. Internet-based communication services generally are not subject to federal fees or taxes imposed to support programs such as universal telephone service. Changes in the rules or regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission or in applicable federal communications laws relating to the imposition of these fees or taxes could result in significant new operating expenses for us, and could negatively impact our business. Any new law or regulation, U.S. or foreign, pertaining to Internet-based communications services, or changes to the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise harm our business. Further, there are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws or regulations may relate to taxation and the quality of services. Furthermore, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and 22 Table of Contents infringement, taxation, encryption, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, export or import matters and other issues is uncertain and developing and we are not certain how the possible application of these laws may affect us. Some of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address these issues could create uncertainty in the Internet market, which could reduce demand for our services, increase our operating expenses or increase our litigation costs. Due to uncertainty in the application and interpretation of applicable state sales tax laws, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability. During 2009, we recorded a liability of approximately $5.0 million reflecting our best estimate of our potential sales tax liability and associated interest and penalties thereon. During 2010, we reduced this liability down to $2.9 million through sales tax payments, settlements with certain state tax authorities and revised estimates. During 2011, this liability was reduced further to $1.4 million as a result of payments and revised estimates. The application and interpretation of various state sales tax laws to certain of our services is uncertain. Accordingly, we may be exposed to additional sales tax liability to the extent various state jurisdictions determine that certain of our services are subject to their state’s sales tax. While we believe all of our estimates and assumptions, including settlements with certain taxing authorities, are reasonable and will be sustained upon audit, the actual liabilities may be more than such estimates, and if so, such liability may negatively impact our financial condition. In order to compete, we must attract and retain key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract and retain executives, sales representatives, engineers and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, sales representatives and engineers are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. If we experience significant turnover of our executives, sales representatives and engineers it will be difficult to achieve our business objectives and could adversely impact our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 