Item 1A. Risk Factors If the world-wide financial crisis continues, the volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, including affecting the cost of new capital, our ability to refinance our scheduled debt maturities and meet our other obligations as they come due. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. The markets have exerted extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and have severely restricted credit availability for most issuers. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products, such as cable television services and entertainment, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay for the services we provide. We have experienced some of the effects of this economic downturn. Continuation of events such as these may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We rely on the capital markets, particularly for offerings of debt securities, as well as the credit markets, to meet our financial commitments and liquidity needs. The disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance on satisfactory terms, or at all, our scheduled debt maturities and could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities. There can be no assurances that the disruptions in the capital and credit markets will subside sufficiently to allow us to timely refinance our debt maturities on satisfactory terms. A broad economic downturn may impact our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our indentures, credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness and may impact our ability to pay our indebtedness as it comes due. If we do not repay our debt obligations when they become due and do not otherwise comply with the covenants and restrictions in our indentures, credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we would be in default under those agreements, and the debt incurred under those agreements could then be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, any default under our indentures, credit facilities or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our indentures, credit facilities and our other debt instruments were accelerated, we would not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due thereunder. To avoid a default, we could be required to defer capital expenditures, sell assets, seek strategic investments from third parties or reduce or eliminate dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. However, if such measures were to become necessary, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell sufficient assets or raise strategic investment capital sufficient to meet our scheduled debt maturities as they come due. In addition, any significant reduction in necessary capital expenditures could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customer base and obtain new customers which would adversely affect our future operating results, cash flows and financial position. 27 Table of Contents The disruptions in the capital and credit markets have also resulted in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Continuation of these disruptions would increase our interest expense, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial position. Our access to funds under our revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to those facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. We have substantial indebtedness and we are highly leveraged, which reduces our capability to withstand adverse developments or business conditions. We have incurred substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance operations, to upgrade our cable plant and acquire other cable television systems, programming networks, sources of programming and other businesses. We also have incurred indebtedness in order to offer our new or upgraded services to our current and potential customers. We have also incurred substantial debt to pursue activities outside our core businesses such as our acquisitions of The Wiz, Clearview Cinemas, Newsday and our development of Rainbow DBS. In 2006, CSC Holdings incurred $3.5 billion of debt, approximately $3.0 billion of which was distributed to Cablevision to fund a $10 per share dividend on its common stock and approximately $414 million of which was used to repay existing indebtedness, including interest, fees and expenses. We may continue to incur substantial amounts of debt in the future. At December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness aggregated approximately $12.0 billion. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and we will continue to be highly leveraged. This means that our payments on our borrowings are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flow. This leverage exposes us to significant risk in the event of downturns in our businesses (whether through competitive pressures or otherwise), in our industries or in the economy generally, because although our cash flows would decrease in this scenario, our required payments in respect of indebtedness would not. Our financial statements reflect substantial losses from continuing operations and a significant stockholders’ deficiency, and we expect that our net losses, absent one-time gains, may continue and remain substantial for the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to raise needed capital. We reported income (losses) from continuing operations of $(226.6) million, $23.7 million and $(142.0) million (which included pre-tax impairment losses aggregating $460.6 million in 2008 and a pre-tax gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests of $183.3 million in 2007) for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our continuing losses (after excluding the pre-tax gain on sale of programming and affiliate interests) primarily reflect our high interest expense and depreciation and amortization charges (including impairments), which may continue to be significant. Our continuing losses may limit our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as those losses are taken into account by the organizations that issue investment ratings on our indebtedness. 28 Table of Contents A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. The debt ratings for our notes are below the “investment grade” category, which results in higher borrowing costs as well as a reduced pool of potential purchasers of our debt as some investors will not purchase debt securities that are not rated in an investment grade rating category. In addition, there can be no assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency, if in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. A lowering or withdrawal of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our financial performance may be harmed by the significant and credible risks of competition in our Telecommunications Services segment. Competition in our various business segments could adversely affect our business and financial results and our ability to service our debt. This risk is heightened by the rapid technological change inherent in our business and the need to acquire, develop and adopt new technology to differentiate our products and services from our competitors. We may need to anticipate far in advance which technology we should use for the development of new products and services or the enhancement of existing products and services. In addition, changes in the regulatory and legislative environments may result in changes to the competitive landscape. Our cable systems compete with a variety of video programming distribution systems, including broadcast television stations, direct broadcast satellite systems, incumbent telephone companies, multichannel multipoint distribution services, satellite master antenna television systems, private home dish earth stations, and open video systems operators like RCN. We face intense competition from two incumbent telephone companies. Verizon and AT&T, which offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, compete across all of our telecommunications products. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances that they have made. For example, Verizon has constructed fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our service area (currently about a third of the households according to our estimates). Verizon has obtained authority to provide video service (it already has or needs no authority to provide phone and data services) for a majority of these homes passed, on a statewide basis in New Jersey and in numerous local franchises in New York. In July 2008, the New York Public Service Commission granted regulatory approval for Verizon to provide cable television service to all of New York City. Verizon has so far not sought to obtain authority for video service in Connecticut. AT&T offers video service in competition with us in most of our Connecticut service area. Each of these companies has significantly greater financial resources than we do. The attractive demographics of our service territory make this region a desirable location for investment in video distribution technologies by these companies. This intense competition affects our ability to add or retain customers and could lead to pressure upon our pricing of telecommunications services and our ability to expand services purchased by our customers. Cable systems also compete with the entities that make digital video recorded movies and programs available for home rental or sale. Video competition to cable systems is also possible from the delivery of video programming over the Internet directly to subscribers, and wireless technologies, including wireless LMDS and MVDDS. Our high-speed data offering to consumers faces intense competition from other providers of high-speed Internet access including services offered by local telephone providers such as Verizon and AT&T. These lines may also be used to offer video programming in competition with our cable systems. In addition, DBS providers have tested the use of certain spectrum to offer satellite-based high-speed data services and are offering broadband data services via partnerships and marketing arrangements with other providers such as Verizon, AT&T and Earthlink. The FCC has allocated spectrum for use by licensed and unlicensed providers of wireless broadband service, including LMDS, MVDDS, Broadband Radio Service/Educational Broadband Service, Wireless Communications Service, and Digital Electronic 29 Table of Contents Message Service, which, if offered within our service area, could compete with our high-speed data offering. Our voice service offerings to consumers face intense competition from other providers of voice services, including local exchange carriers such as Verizon and AT&T and other competitive providers of voice services, as well as VoIP providers like Vonage. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness may be restricted by limitations on our subsidiaries’ ability to send us funds. Our principal subsidiaries include various entities that own cable television systems or own interests in programming networks. Our ability to pay interest on and repay principal of our outstanding indebtedness is dependent primarily upon the operations of our subsidiaries and the distributions or other payments of the cash they generate to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our public indebtedness or to make any funds available to us to do so. Rainbow National Services LLC, which we refer to as RNS, is a party to a credit agreement and indentures that contain various financial and operating covenants that restrict the payment of dividends or other distributions. In addition, Newsday LLC is a party to a credit agreement that contains various financial and operating covenants that restrict the payment of dividends or other distributions. In addition, our subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors, in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries, including any assets transferred to those subsidiaries, prior to any of our claims as a stockholder and those creditors are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us. To the extent that we are a creditor of a subsidiary, our claims could be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds are limited by significant restrictive covenants in financing agreements. Our credit facilities and debt instruments contain various financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require the maintenance of financial ratios and restrict the relevant borrower’s ability to incur debt from other sources and to use funds for various purposes, including investments in some subsidiaries. Violation of these covenants could result in a default that would permit the parties who have lent money under such credit facilities and such other debt instruments to: · restrict the ability to borrow undrawn funds under such credit facilities, and · require the immediate repayment of the borrowings thereunder. These events would be likely to have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt and equity securities. We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business. We may also engage in extraordinary transactions that involve the incurrence of large amounts of debt. Our business is very capital intensive. Operating and maintaining our cable television plant requires significant amounts of cash payments to third parties. Capital expenditures for our businesses were $909.1 million, $781.3 million and $885.8 million, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and primarily include payments for consumer premises equipment, such as new digital video cable boxes and modems, as well as infrastructure and capital expenditures related to our cable and Optimum Lightpath telecommunications networks, in addition to the capital requirements of our other businesses. We expect 30 Table of Contents these capital expenditures to continue to be significant over the next several years, as we continue to market our services such as digital video, high-speed data and voice (including enhancements to our service offerings such as a broadband wireless network (WiFi)) to our customers. Some of our subsidiaries have substantial future capital commitments in the form of long-term contracts that require substantial payments over a long period of time. For example, rights agreements with sports teams under which their games are carried on the networks of certain of our programming subsidiaries and our various film library obligations almost always involve multi-year contracts that are difficult and expensive to terminate. We also intend to renovate our Madison Square Garden Arena in the next several years, which would require significant funding. We will not be able to generate sufficient cash internally to both meet these obligations and repay our indebtedness at maturity. Accordingly, we will have to do one or more of the following: · refinance existing obligations to extend maturities, · raise additional capital, through debt or equity issuances or both, · cancel or scale back current and future spending programs, or · sell assets or interests in one or more of our businesses. However, you should not assume that we will be able to refinance existing obligations or raise any required additional capital or to do so on favorable terms. Borrowing costs related to future capital raising activities may be significantly higher than our current borrowing costs and we may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, if unsettled conditions in financial markets continue to exist. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. It is possible that in the future we may also engage in extraordinary transactions and such transactions could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness. Government investigations and litigation relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business. On August 8, 2006, we disclosed that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), we had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of Cablevision’s stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of Cablevision’s common stock on the actual grant date. In such cases, the date assigned to the grant corresponded to the date of a unanimous written consent executed by the members of the compensation committee of Cablevision’s Board of Directors, but the date of that consent did not correspond to the actual date of the grant. In nearly all such cases, the stock price on the assigned date was lower, sometimes substantially lower, than the price on the date the award was actually granted. At all relevant times, Cablevision’s stock plan required that the exercise price of options be not less than the fair market value per share of Cablevision’s common stock on the date of grant. In addition, two awards of options and one option modification were also incorrectly accounted for as having been granted to employees or modified for employees. One of these two awards was to Cablevision’s former compensation consultant (which was subsequently cancelled in 2003) and the other award related to an executive officer whose death occurred after the stated grant date of the award and before the actual grant date. As a result, we restated our consolidated financial statements for 1997 through March 31, 2006 as reported in our amended 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our amended March 31, 2006 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on September 21, 2006. In addition, we notified the Internal Revenue Service of the stock option review and provided the IRS an adjustment to reduce our net operating loss carry forward (“NOL”) by $86.2 million for all tax years through December 31, 2004 and in connection with our filing of our 2005 tax return, the NOL was further reduced by $2.2 million. 31 Table of Contents We have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. We received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock options issues. We received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters. We are cooperating fully with these investigations and intend to continue to do so. In addition, purported derivative lawsuits (including one purported combined derivative and class action lawsuit) relating to Cablevision’s past stock option and SAR grants have been filed. On October 27, 2006, the Board of Directors established a Special Litigation Committee of the Board, consisting of two newly appointed directors. The Special Litigation Committee was given responsibility to review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding claims raised in the options litigation in which Cablevision has been named as a nominal defendant, and which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of Cablevision. On June 4, 2008, Cablevision, on the determination of the Special Litigation Committee, entered into a settlement with the plaintiffs and most of the defendants in these lawsuits. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” for a description of that settlement. We are unable to predict the outcome of these government investigations but such matters have resulted in substantial legal and other defense costs, have occupied and will continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team and could have a material adverse impact on us and Cablevision’s stock price, including increased stock price volatility, and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future. Government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business. In June 2003, we reported that we had discovered certain improper expense accruals primarily at the national programming services of our Rainbow segment. Following that announcement, investigations were commenced by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. In addition, in July 2004, in connection with our response to comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we provided the SEC with information with respect to certain of our previous restatements/adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. On January 22, 2009, the SEC announced that it had entered a cease-and desist order against us with respect to its investigations concerning improper expense accruals and the improper recognition of launch and marketing support payments under affiliation agreements. The matter has occupied and may continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team. We are cooperating fully and intend to continue to do so. Any adverse developments in connection with this matter could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, including increased stock price volatility and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future. The success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality, and our ability to obtain carriage of that programming. Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming networks compete in two highly competitive markets. First, our programming networks compete with other programming networks to obtain distribution on cable television systems and other multichannel video programming distribution services. Second, the success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality. In particular, the national entertainment networks depend upon the availability of films, television programming and music in their niche markets and Madison Square Garden’s programming networks depend upon the availability of local sports programming, especially professional sports programming. 32 Table of Contents The national entertainment networks are parties to film rights agreements giving the networks the right to exhibit certain films during certain window periods. Madison Square Garden’s programming networks are parties to sports rights agreements giving the networks the right to carry all or a portion of the games of local professional sports teams. These rights agreements expire at varying times, may be terminated by the other party if we are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement and, in the case of all sports rights agreements, are subject to league rules and regulations. In addition, our programming businesses are parties to affiliation agreements with distributors that require those programming businesses to deliver programming that meets certain standards as to quantity, quality or content. For example, certain affiliation agreements require that Madison Square Garden’s programming networks deliver a certain minimum number of local professional sports games. We would not be able to satisfy those requirements if we did not have the rights to carry the prerequisite number of games from the local professional sports teams. In 2005, we settled litigation with Time Warner, which attempted to terminate its affiliation agreement with AMC, based on the allegation that AMC had changed its programming format. To the extent that we do not or are not able to satisfy the quantity, quality or content standards set forth in our affiliation agreements, operators may have the right to terminate those affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that our programming businesses will ultimately be successful in negotiating renewals of their rights agreements or program supply agreements or in negotiating adequate substitute rights or program supply agreements in the event that their rights or program supply agreements expire or are terminated. Our recently acquired Newsday business has suffered operating losses historically and such losses could continue in the future. Newsday suffered an operating loss of $403.3 million for the period July 30, 2008 through December 31, 2008, which included impairments of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, and certain long-lived intangible assets of $402.4 million. In addition, it recognized operating losses, included in the financial statements of the former owner, in 2007, 2006, and 2005 of approximately $83.7 million, $232.8 million and $351.0 million, respectively, which included impairments of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets of $130.0 million, $275.3 million and $432.6 million, respectively. Operating losses could continue in the future. In connection with the formation of a company through which we have an approximately 97.2% interest in Newsday, its subsidiary, Newsday LLC incurred $650.0 million of indebtedness under its new senior secured credit facility and $630.0 million of the proceeds of these borrowings were paid to Newsday’s former owner, Tribune Company. These borrowings are guaranteed by CSC Holdings. In addition, Cablevision issued approximately $682.0 million of its 8% senior notes due 2012 (fair value of $650 million at date of contribution) to Newsday Holdings LLC. Newsday LLC has agreed that it will keep Cablevision or CSC Holdings senior notes or cash balances in excess of the amount of borrowings outstanding under the new senior secured credit facility until it matures. Demand for advertising, increased competition and declines in circulation affect Newsday. A majority of the revenues of our recently acquired Newsday business are from advertising. Expenditures by advertisers generally reflect economic conditions and declines in national and local economic conditions affect demand for advertising and the levels of advertising revenue for Newsday. Newsday faces significant competition for advertising revenue from a variety of media sources including other newspapers, magazines, shopping guides, yellow pages, websites, broadcast and cable television, radio and direct marketing. Specialized websites for real estate, automobile and help wanted advertising have become increasingly competitive with our newspapers and websites for classified advertising and further development of additional targeted websites is likely. Newsday operates in a highly competitive market which may adversely affect advertising and circulation revenues. Newsday and the newspaper industry generally have also experienced significant declines in advertising and circulation revenue as circulation and readership levels continue to be adversely affected by competition from new media news formats and less reliance on newspapers by some consumers as a 33 Table of Contents source of news, particularly younger consumers. A prolonged decline in circulation would have a material adverse effect on the rate and volume of advertising revenues. A significant amount of our book value consists of intangible assets that may not generate cash in the event of a voluntary or involuntary sale. At December 31, 2008, we reported $9.4 billion of consolidated total assets, of which $2.9 billion were intangible. Intangible assets include franchises from city and county governments to operate cable television systems, affiliation agreements, and amounts representing the cost of acquired assets and businesses in excess of their identifiable tangible and intangible assets. While we believe that the carrying value of our intangible assets are recoverable, you should not assume that we would receive any cash from the voluntary or involuntary sale of these intangible assets, particularly if we were not continuing as an operating business. We urge you to read carefully our consolidated financial statements contained herein, which provide more detailed information about these intangible assets. We are controlled by the Dolan family. As a result of their control of us, the Dolan family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us. Cablevision has two classes of common stock: · Class B common stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of the Cablevision Board of Directors, and · Class A common stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of the Cablevision Board of Directors. As of February 20, 2009, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively owned all of Cablevision’s Class B common stock, less than 3% of Cablevision’s outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 70% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. Of this amount, our Chairman, Charles F. Dolan, beneficially owned approximately 46% of Cablevision’s outstanding Class B common stock, less than 1% of Cablevision’s outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 32% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B common stock have executed a voting agreement that has the effect of causing the voting power of the Class B stockholders to be cast as a block with respect to the election of the directors elected by the Class B stockholders and any change of control transaction. The Dolan family is able to prevent a change in control of Cablevision and no person interested in acquiring Cablevision will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. On May 2, 2007, Cablevision entered into a merger agreement with an entity owned by the Dolan Family Group. The terms of the merger agreement provided that an entity owned by the Dolan Family Group would be merged with and into Cablevision and, as a result, Cablevision would continue as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of an entity controlled by the Dolan Family Group. This transaction would have involved the incurrence of approximately $13.9 billion of indebtedness of Cablevision, CSC Holdings and their subsidiaries. Following the announcement of the execution of the merger agreement, the long-term debt ratings of CSC Holdings’ senior and subordinated debt were placed on credit watch with negative implications. On October 24, 2007, that transaction was submitted to a vote of Cablevision’s shareholders and did not receive shareholder approval. Subsequently, the parties terminated the merger agreement pursuant to its terms. This transaction would have resulted in holders of our Class A common stock receiving a cash payment for their shares and members of the Dolan family owning all of the equity interests in the surviving corporation. In connection with this proposed merger transaction and prior proposals contemplating similar going private transactions, members of the Dolan family stated that they were only interested in pursuing their proposed transaction and would not sell their stake in Cablevision. There can be no assurances that the Dolan family will not propose, undertake or consummate a similar transaction in the future. 34 Table of Contents As a result of the Dolan family’s ownership of all of the Class B common stock, the Dolan family has the power to elect all the directors of Cablevision subject to election by holders of Class B common stock. Those directors constitute a majority of Cablevision’s board of directors. In addition, Dolan family members may control stockholder decisions on matters in which holders of all classes of Cablevision common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of Cablevision’s certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B common stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B common stock. Furthermore, the Dolan family members also have the power to prevent any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of Cablevision’s certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B common stock. One purpose of the voting agreement referred to above is to consolidate Dolan family control of Cablevision. The Dolan family requested Cablevision’s Board of Directors to exercise Cablevision’s right, as a “controlled company”, to opt-out of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board and to have an independent corporate governance and nominating committee. Cablevision’s Board of Directors and the directors elected by holders of Class A common stock each approved this request on March 8, 2004. Programming costs of our cable television systems are increasing and we may not have the ability to pass these increases on to our subscribers. Programming costs paid by our cable television systems are one of our largest categories of expenses. These costs have increased rapidly and are expected to continue to increase, particularly with respect to costs for sports programming. We may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our subscribers due to the increasingly competitive environment. If we are unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our subscribers, our operating results would be adversely affected. We face intense competition in obtaining content for our programming businesses. Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming businesses compete with other programming networks to secure desired programming. Most of Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming is obtained through agreements with other parties that have produced or own the rights to such programming. Competition for and choices of programming will increase as the number of programming networks increases. Other programming networks that are affiliated with programming sources such as movie or television studios, film libraries or sports teams may have a competitive advantage over Rainbow Media Holdings in this area. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do. Our cable television and telecommunications businesses are heavily regulated and operate pursuant to detailed statutory and regulatory requirements at the federal, state and local level. See “Item 1. Business - Regulation”. The FCC and state and local governments extensively regulate the basic rates we may charge our customers for certain of our video services. They also regulate us in other ways that affect the daily conduct of our video delivery and video programming businesses, our telephone business and, possibly in the future, our highspeed data services business. In addition, our businesses are dependent upon governmental authorizations to carry on their operations. See discussion under “Item 1. Business - -Regulation”. Legislative enactments, court actions and federal, state, and local regulatory proceedings frequently modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate. The results of these legislative, judicial 35 Table of Contents and administrative actions may materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. Changes to the franchising process and other regulatory benefits extended only to new competitive entrants, for example, as well as new requirements giving third parties access to our network or other assets, could materially affect our ability to compete. Changes to regulations from which we benefit and on which we depend to run our businesses also could materially affect our operations. Any action with respect to these or other matters by the courts, Congress, the FCC, the states of New York, New Jersey or Connecticut, or concerted action by local regulators, the likelihood or extent of which we cannot predict, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our current franchises are non-exclusive and our franchisors need not renew our franchises. Our cable television systems are operated primarily under non-exclusive franchise agreements with state or municipal government franchising authorities, with the approval of state cable television authorities. Consequently, our business is dependent on our ability to obtain and renew our franchises. Although we have never lost a franchise as a result of a failure to obtain a renewal, our franchises are subject to non renewal or termination under some circumstances. In some cases, franchise agreements have not been renewed by the expiration date, and we operate under temporary authority routinely granted from the state while negotiating renewal terms with the franchise authorities. As of December 31, 2008, our ten largest franchise areas comprise approximately 48% of our total basic video customers and of those, five franchises comprising approximately 902,200 basic video customers, are expired. We are currently operating in these franchise areas under temporary authority and we are actively engaged in or have completed negotiations to renew these franchises. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 