Item 1A. Risk Factors Government investigations and litigation relating to stock option matters are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business. On August 8, 2006 the Company disclosed that, based on a voluntary review of past practices in connection with grants of stock options and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”), we had determined that the grant date and exercise price assigned to a number of our stock option and SAR grants during the 1997-2002 period did not correspond to the actual grant date and the closing price of our common stock on the actual grant date. In such cases, the date assigned to the grant corresponded to the date of a unanimous written consent executed by the members of the compensation committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, but the date of that consent did not correspond to the actual date of the grant. In nearly all such cases, the stock price on the assigned date was lower, sometimes substantially lower, than the price on the date the award was actually granted. At all relevant times, the Company’s stock plan required that the exercise price of options be not less than the fair market value per share of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. In addition, two awards of options and one option modification were also incorrectly accounted for as having been granted to employees or modified for employees. One of these two awards was to the Company’s former compensation consultant (which was subsequently cancelled in 2003) and the other award related to an executive officer whose death occurred after the stated grant date of the award and before the actual grant date. As a result, the Company restated its consolidated financial statements for 1997 through March 31, 2006 as reported in its amended 2005 Form 10-K and its amended March 31, 2006 Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on September 21, 2006. In addition, the Company notified the Internal Revenue Service of the stock option review and provided the IRS an adjustment to reduce the Company’s net operating loss carry forward by $86.2 million for all tax years through December 31, 2004 and in connection with the Company’s filing of its 2005 tax return, the net operating loss was further reduced by $2.2 million. We have advised the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York of these matters and each has commenced an investigation. We received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York seeking documents related to the stock options issues. We received a document request from the SEC relating to its informal investigation into these matters. We are cooperating fully with such investigations and intend to continue to do so. In addition, purported derivative lawsuits (including one purported combined derivative and class action lawsuit) relating to our past stock option and SAR grants have been filed. On October 27, 2006, the Board of Directors established a special litigation committee of the Board, consisting of two newly appointed directors. The special litigation committee was given responsibility to review and analyze the facts and circumstances surrounding claims that have been raised in the options litigation in which the Company has been named as a nominal defendant, and which purport to have been brought derivatively on behalf of the Company. The special litigation committee has full and sole authority to consider and determine whether or not prosecution of such claims is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, and what actions the Company should take with respect to the cases. We are unable to predict the outcome of these government investigations and lawsuits but such matters will result in substantial legal and other defense costs, have occupied and will continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team and could have a material adverse impact on us and our stock price, including increased stock price volatility, and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future. 24 We have substantial indebtedness and we are highly leveraged, which reduces our capability to withstand adverse developments or business conditions. We have incurred substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance operations, to upgrade our cable plant and acquire other cable television systems, programming networks, sources of programming and other businesses. We also have incurred indebtedness in order to offer our new services to our current and potential customers. We have also incurred substantial debt to pursue activities outside our core businesses such as our acquisitions of the Wiz, Clearview Cinemas and our development of Rainbow DBS. In 2006, CSC Holdings incurred $3.5 billion of debt, approximately $3.0 billion of which was distributed to Cablevision to fund a $10 per share dividend on its common stock and approximately $414 million of which was used to repay existing indebtedness, including interest, fees and expenses. We may continue to incur substantial amounts of debt in the future. At December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness aggregated approximately $12.5 billion. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and we will continue to be highly leveraged. This means that our payments on our borrowings are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flow. This leverage exposes us to significant risk in the event of downturns in our businesses (whether through competitive pressures or otherwise), in our industries or in the economy generally, because although our cash flows would decrease in this scenario, our required payments in respect of indebtedness will not. Our financial statements reflect substantial losses from continuing operations and a significant stockholders’ deficiency, and we expect that our net losses, absent one-time gains, may continue and remain substantial for the foreseeable future, which may reduce our ability to raise needed capital. We reported losses from continuing operations of $133.0 million, $127.5 million and $486.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our losses from continuing operations primarily reflect our high interest expense, our preferred stock dividends (through May 2004) and depreciation and amortization charges, which may continue to be significant. Our continuing losses may limit our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as those losses are taken into account by the organizations that issue investment ratings on our indebtedness. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Our debt ratings are below the “investment grade” category, which results in higher borrowing costs as well as a reduced pool of potential purchasers of our debt as some investors will not purchase debt securities that are not rated in an investment grade rating category. In addition, there can be no assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency, if in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. A lowering or withdrawal of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. All of Cablevision’s, CSC Holdings’ and RNS’ ratings were placed on creditwatch with negative implications and review for downgrade by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s twice during 2006 as a result of the stock option review and subsequent non-compliance with the financial reporting and other information delivery requirements under the Company’s debt instruments and also following the announcement of the Dolan Family Group proposal. While neither occurrence resulted in any downgrades to our ratings and we are no longer on creditwatch, there can be no assurance that this will not occur again. Our financial performance may be harmed by the significant and credible risks of competition in our cable television, high-speed data and voice businesses. Competition in our various business segments could adversely affect our business and financial results and our ability to service our debt. Our cable systems compete with a variety of video programming distribution systems, including broadcast television stations, direct broadcast satellite systems, incumbent telephone companies, multichannel multipoint distribution services, satellite master antenna television 25 systems, private home dish earth stations, and OVS operators like RCN. We face intense competition from incumbent telephone companies such as Verizon and AT&T, which have recently begun to offer video programming in addition to their voice and high-speed Internet access services, evidencing their commitment to compete across all of the Company’s telecommunications products. Their competitive position has been improved by recent operational, regulatory and legislative advances that they have made. Verizon and AT&T are constructing fiber-based systems designed to provide video programming as well as voice and data services to residential customers in our service area. The attractive demographics of the Company’s service territory make this region a desirable location for investment in video distribution technologies by these companies. This intense competition could lead to pressure upon our pricing of telecommunications services, our ability to add or retain customers and our ability to expand services purchased by our customers. Cable systems also compete with the entities that make videotaped movies and programs available for home rental or sale. Actual or potential video competition to cable systems is also possible from the delivery of video programming over the Internet directly to subscribers, and wireless technologies, including LMDS and MVDDS. Our high-speed data offering to consumers faces intense competition from other providers of high-speed Internet access including services offered by local telephone providers such as Verizon and AT&T. These lines may also be used to offer video programming in competition with our cable systems. In addition, DBS providers have tested the use of certain spectrum to offer satellite-based high-speed data services and are offering broadband data services via partnerships and marketing arrangements with other providers such as Verizon, AT&T and Earthlink. The FCC has allocated spectrum for use by licensed and unlicensed providers of wireless broadband service, including LMDS, MVDDS, and WiMax, which, if offered within Cablevision’s service area, could compete with our high-speed data offering. Our voice service offerings to consumers face intense competition from other providers of voice services, including local exchange carriers such as Verizon and AT&T and other competitive providers of voice services, as well as VoIP providers like Vonage. Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness may be restricted by limitations on our subsidiaries’ ability to send us funds. Our principal subsidiaries include various entities that own cable television systems or own interests in programming networks. Our ability to pay interest on and repay principal of our outstanding indebtedness is dependent primarily upon the operations of our subsidiaries and the distributions or other payments of the cash they generate to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our public indebtedness or to make any funds available to us to do so. RNS is a party to a credit agreement and indentures that contain various financial and operating covenants that restrict the payment of dividends or other distributions. In addition, our subsidiaries’ creditors, including trade creditors, in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries, including any assets transferred to those subsidiaries, prior to any of our claims as a stockholder. Creditors of our subsidiaries are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us. To the extent that we are a creditor of a subsidiary, our claims would be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us. Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds are limited by significant restrictive covenants in financing agreements. Our credit facilities and debt instruments contain various financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require the maintenance of financial ratios and restrict the relevant borrower’s ability to incur debt from other sources and to use funds for various purposes, including investments in some subsidiaries. Violation of these covenants could result in a default that would permit the parties who have lent money under such credit facilities and such other debt instruments to: 26 · restrict the ability to borrow undrawn funds under such credit facilities, and · require the immediate repayment of the borrowings thereunder. These events would be likely to have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt and equity securities. We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business. Our business is very capital intensive. Operating and maintaining our cable television plant requires significant amounts of cash payments to third parties. Capital expenditures for our businesses were $886.3 million $769.3 million, and $697.5 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and primarily include payments for consumer premises equipment, such as new digital video cable boxes and modems, as well as infrastructure and maintenance expenditures on our cable and Lightpath telecommunications network, in addition to the capital requirements of our other businesses. We expect these capital expenditures to continue to be significant over the next several years, as we continue to market our video, high-speed data and voice services to our customers. Some of our subsidiaries have substantial future capital commitments in the form of long-term contracts that require substantial payments over a long period of time. For example, rights agreements with sports teams under which their games are carried on the networks of certain of our programming subsidiaries almost always involve multi-year contracts that are difficult and expensive to terminate. In addition, if we fail to spend the requisite amounts under our affiliation agreement with EchoStar, up to a maximum of $500 million during the 2005-2010 period in our VOOM HD Networks programming business, EchoStar may terminate the affiliation agreement. We also face the need to renovate our Madison Square Garden Arena in the next several years or pursue a relocation alternative either of which would require significant funding. We will not be able to generate sufficient cash internally to both meet these obligations and repay our indebtedness at maturity. In that regard, we also have maturing debt obligations (excluding collateralized indebtedness) of approximately $3.0 billion over the 2007-2009 period. Accordingly, we will have to do one or more of the following: · refinance existing obligations to extend maturities, · raise additional capital, through debt or equity issuances or both, · cancel or scale back current and future spending programs, or · sell assets or interests in one or more of our businesses. However, you should not assume that we will be able to refinance existing obligations or raise any required additional capital or to do so on favorable terms. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Government investigations relating to improper expense recognition and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements are pending, the scope and outcome of which could have a negative impact on the price of our securities and our business. In June 2003, we reported that we had discovered certain improper expense accruals primarily at the national programming services of our Rainbow segment. Following that announcement, investigations were commenced by the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. In addition, in July 2004, in connection with our response to comments of the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC with respect to our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we 27 provided the SEC with information with respect to certain of our previous restatements/adjustments relating to the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The SEC is continuing to investigate the improper expense recognition matter and the timing of recognition of launch support, marketing and other payments under affiliation agreements. The matter has occupied and will continue to occupy the time and attention of our management team. We are cooperating fully and intend to continue to do so. Any adverse developments in connection with this matter, including a determination that we have acted improperly, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, including increased stock price volatility and could negatively impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future. Programming costs of our cable television systems are increasing and we may not have the ability to pass these increases on to our subscribers. Programming costs paid by our cable television systems are one of our largest categories of expenses. These costs have increased rapidly and are expected to continue to increase, particularly with respect to costs for sports programming. We may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our subscribers due to the increasingly competitive environment. If we are unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our subscribers, our operating results would be adversely affected. We face intense competition in obtaining content for our programming businesses. Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming businesses compete with other programming networks to secure desired programming. Most of Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming is obtained through agreements with other parties that have produced or own the rights to such programming. Competition for and choices of programming will increase as the number of programming networks increases. Other programming networks that are affiliated with programming sources such as movie or television studios, film libraries or sports teams may have a competitive advantage over Rainbow Media Holdings in this area. The success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality, and our ability to obtain carriage of our programming. Rainbow Media Holdings’ programming networks compete in two highly competitive markets. First, our programming networks compete with other programming networks to obtain distribution on cable television systems and other multichannel video programming distribution services. Second, the success of our programming businesses depends upon the availability of programming that is adequate in quantity and quality. In particular, the national entertainment networks depend upon the availability of films, television programming and music in their niche markets and the regional sports networks depend upon the availability of local sports programming, especially professional sports programming. The national entertainment networks are parties to film rights agreements giving the networks the right to carry certain films during certain window periods. The regional sports networks are parties to sports rights agreements giving the networks the right to carry all or a portion of the games of local professional sports teams. These rights agreements expire at varying times, may be terminated by the other party if we are not in compliance with the terms of the agreement and, in the case of all sports rights agreements, are subject to league rules and regulations. In addition, our programming businesses are parties to affiliation agreements with distributors that require those programming businesses to deliver programming that meets certain standards as to quantity, quality or content. For example, certain affiliation agreements require that our regional sports networks deliver a certain minimum number of local professional sports games. We would not be able to satisfy those requirements if we did not have the rights to carry the prerequisite number of games from the local professional sports teams. In 2005, we settled litigation with Time Warner, which attempted to terminate its affiliation agreement with AMC, based on the allegation that AMC had changed its programming. To the extent that we do not or are not able to satisfy the quantity, quality or content standards set forth in our affiliation agreements, distributors may have the 28 right to terminate those affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that our programming businesses will ultimately be successful in negotiating renewals of their rights agreements or program supply agreements or in negotiating adequate substitute rights or program supply agreements in the event that their rights or program supply agreements expire or are terminated. A significant amount of our book value consists of intangible assets that may not generate cash in the event of a voluntary or involuntary sale. At December 31, 2006, we reported $9.8 billion of consolidated total assets, of which $2.5 billion were intangible. Intangible assets include franchises from city and county governments to operate cable television systems, affiliation agreements, and amounts representing the cost of some acquired assets and businesses in excess of their identifiable tangible and intangible assets. While we believe that the carrying value of our intangible assets are recoverable, you should not assume that we would receive any cash from the voluntary or involuntary sale of these intangible assets, particularly if we were not continuing as an operating business. We urge you to read carefully our consolidated financial statements contained herein, which provide more detailed information about these intangible assets. We are controlled by the Dolan family. As a result of their control of us, the Dolan family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us. We have two classes of common stock: · Class B common stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of the Cablevision Board of Directors, and · Class A common stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of the Cablevision Board of Directors. As of February 22, 2007, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively owned all of Cablevision’s Class B common stock, less than 3% of Cablevision’s Class A common stock and approximately 74% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. Of this amount, our Chairman, Charles F. Dolan, owned approximately 41% of Cablevision’s Class B common stock, less than 1% of Cablevision’s Class A common stock and approximately 30% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B common stock have executed a voting agreement that has the effect of causing the voting power of the Class B stockholders to be cast as a block with respect to the election of the directors elected by the Class B stockholders and any change of control transaction. The Dolan family is able to prevent a change in control of Cablevision and no person interested in acquiring Cablevision will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. On June 19, 2005, Cablevision received a proposal from the Dolan Family Group to acquire the outstanding, publicly-held interests in Cablevision following a pro-rata distribution to all Cablevision stockholders of Rainbow Media Holdings. On October 24, 2005, Cablevision received a letter from the Dolan Family Group withdrawing the June 19, 2005 proposal. In that letter, the Dolan Family Group also recommended that Cablevision’s Board of Directors consider the declaration of a $3 billion one-time, special dividend payable pro rata to all shareholders. The dividend was paid on April 24, 2006 to holders of Cablevision NY Group Class A common stock and Cablevision NY Group Class B common stock. On October 8, 2006, Cablevision received a proposal from the Dolan family to acquire all of the outstanding publicly-held interests in Cablevision, and the proposal was revised by the Dolan family on January 12, 2007. The Special Transaction Committee of Cablevision’s Board of Directors rejected the revised proposal as inadequate on January 16, 2007. The revised proposal expired on January 17, 2007. This proposed transaction would have resulted in the incurrence by CSC Holdings of very substantial additional indebtedness. In both of their proposals, the Dolan family stated that they were only interested in pursuing their proposed transaction and would not sell their stake in Cablevision. There can be no 29 assurances that the Dolan family will not propose, undertake or consummate a similar transaction in the future. As a result of the Dolan family’s ownership of all of the Class B common stock, the Dolan family has the power to elect all the directors of Cablevision subject to election by holders of Class B common stock. In addition, Dolan family members may control stockholder decisions on matters in which holders of all classes of Cablevision common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of Cablevision’s certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B common stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B common stock. Furthermore, the Dolan family members also have the power to prevent any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of Cablevision’s certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B common stock. One purpose of the voting agreement referred to above is to consolidate Dolan family control of Cablevision. The Dolan family requested Cablevision’s Board of Directors to exercise Cablevision’s right, as a “controlled company”, to opt-out of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board and to have an independent corporate governance and nominating committee. Cablevision’s Board of Directors and the directors elected by holders of Class A common stock each approved this request on March 8, 2004. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do. The FCC and state and local governments extensively regulate the basic rates we may charge our customers for certain of our video services. They also regulate us in other ways that affect the daily conduct of our video delivery and video programming businesses, our telephone business and, possibly in the future, our high-speed data services business. Our businesses are dependent upon FCC licenses to carry on their operations. Any action by the FCC, the states of New York, New Jersey or Connecticut, or concerted action by local regulators, the likelihood or extent of which we cannot predict, could have a material adverse financial effect on us. Pending FCC, Congressional and judicial proceedings may affect our businesses. Changes in Franchising Requirements. In 2006, Congress considered but did not enact legislation that, for the telephone companies and other wireline video competitors, would relax or eliminate some or all of the local franchising requirements applicable to existing cable operators. New Jersey enacted state franchise legislation in August 2006, but included a provision enabling existing operators to elect regulation under the new franchising scheme. Several other states, including New York and Connecticut, are considering or have considered similar legislation. In June 2006, the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control issued a decision concluding that AT&T did not need to obtain a cable franchise or comply with other cable regulatory requirements before offering its video services throughout Connecticut. The cable industry is currently challenging this decision in court. In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order imposing a 90-day deadline on local franchising authority consideration of franchise applications from new video entrants, such as local telephone companies, that have pre-existing authority to occupy public rights-of-way authority. The FCC also preempted local franchising laws, regulations and requirements regarding such matters as fees, the provision of “institutional networks,” and system deployment, as applied to new entrants. The FCC issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on whether these limitations should also apply with 30 respect to incumbent cable operators, but tentatively concluded that they should not be applied to incumbent operators until their existing franchises are renewed. Access Obligations and “Net Neutrality.” Some parties have proposed federal, state and local requirements that would force cable systems to provide access to third-party Internet service providers in addition to services the cable system itself provides, such as our Optimum Online cable modem service. In 2002, the FCC asked whether it should nonetheless require cable operators to provide transmission capacity to unaffiliated Internet service providers. The outcome of the FCC’s proceeding could affect the regulatory obligations imposed on Optimum Online, and the extent to which states and local authorities may regulate it or assess fees upon revenues generated by it. Relatedly, some members of Congress have suggested that cable operators and other broadband service providers should be subject to a “net neutrality” requirement barring them from “interfering” with subscriber access to Internet content or from reaching agreement with certain content providers for preferential access. The FCC has adopted principles, but not rules, that state that consumers are entitled to access all lawful Internet content using their broadband connections. We cannot predict whether the pending bills will become law or whether the FCC will adopt binding rules embodying these principles. Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent. We are required by federal law to carry all local broadcast stations (“must-carry”), or, at the option of a local broadcaster, to obtain the broadcaster’s prior consent for retransmission of its signal (“retransmission consent”). When a broadcaster completes its transition from analog to digital transmission in February 2009, only its primary digital video stream will be entitled to must-carry. The FCC has twice found that “dual must carry” rules (requiring cable systems to carry both the analog and digital broadcast signals) would be unconstitutional. The FCC has also ruled that broadcasters may not demand mandatory carriage for other than the primary digital video programming stream. The orders rejecting dual must carry and mandatory “multicasting” are currently subject to petitions for reconsideration pending for the FCC. We cannot predict how the FCC will rule on those petitions or whether Congress will enact legislation modifying the FCC’s orders. In the wake of publicized disputes between several cable operators and broadcasters, several members of Congress have expressed concern that that current retransmission consent requirements and practices have had a negative effect on consumers, and stated that it is time for Congress to reexamine those requirements. Other members of Congress have suggested that binding arbitration may be an appropriate means of resolving such disputes. We cannot predict whether Congress will enact legislation to modify the retransmission consent scheme, or whether the FCC will modify its current rules governing this scheme. Tiering/A La Carte. Some members of Congress have proposed requiring cable operators to offer programming services on an unbundled basis rather than as part of a tier or to provide a greater array of tiers to give subscribers the option of purchasing a more limited number of programming services. The FCC also has indicated an interest in requiring cable operators to offer programming services in this “a la carte” manner, and in February 2006 released a report finding “substantial benefits” in the a la carte model of delivering video programming. We cannot predict whether Congress or the FCC might adopt such a requirement, what form it would take, or the effect of such a requirement on our cable television business or Rainbow Media Holdings. Program Access. The “program access” provisions of the Federal Cable Act barring providers of satellite-delivered cable-owned video programming from entering into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators are set to expire in October 2007. We cannot predict whether the ban on exclusive arrangements will be extended, or whether Congress will apply all or some of the program access requirements to terrestrially-delivered programming services, or what effect such an extension or other modifications might have on Rainbow Media Holdings or Cablevision. Indecency and Obscenity Restrictions. Cable operators and broadcasters are prohibited from transmitting obscene programming, but only broadcasters currently are subject to restrictions on the 31 transmission of indecent material. They may not transmit indecent programming when there is a reasonable risk of children in the audience (6 a.m. to 10 p.m.). Some Members of Congress have proposed expanding the prohibitions on indecent programming to include cable and satellite programs, and to prohibit violent programming, notwithstanding the availability of program blocking devices provided by cable and DBS operators. Penalties for violations of this restriction can be severe. We cannot predict the likelihood that such restrictions on cable programming can or will be imposed or the effect such restrictions would have on our cable television and cable programming businesses. Some members of Congress and the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission have suggested that indecency restrictions for cable might be unnecessary if cable operators were to offer a separate tier of “family” programming or to offer programming services for purchase on an individual, “a la carte”, basis. We cannot predict whether the FCC or Congress would mandate such a tier or offering, or the effect of either such requirement on our cable television and cable programming businesses. Diversity Requirements. The FCC has announced that it may open a proceeding to examine whether the so-called “70/70 test” in the Federal Cable Act has been satisfied. Under this provision, when cable systems with 36 or more activated channels are available to 70 percent of households within the United States, and when 70 percent of those households subscribe to them, the FCC may promulgate any additional rules necessary to promote diversity of information sources. We cannot predict whether the FCC will impose any such requirements, the nature of any such requirements, or the effect of such on our cable television or cable programming businesses. Ownership Limitations. Congress has required the FCC to set a national limit on the number of subscribers a cable company can serve, and a limit (the “channel occupancy” limit) on the number of channels that a cable operator can program on any given cable system with programming services controlled by that operator. In 2001, a federal appellate court invalidated the 30% national multichannel subscriber limit and the 40% channel occupancy limit that the FCC had imposed pursuant to this requirement. The FCC is reviewing the ownership rules in light of that decision. We cannot predict at this time how the FCC will rule on these matters. Internet Access Service Consumer Protection. The FCC is reviewing whether it should develop consumer protection requirements for all providers of broadband Internet access services like Optimum Online. Congress also is considering proposals that would require all broadband Internet access service providers to comply with various rules, such as customer privacy, consumer service standards, and access for persons with disabilities. We cannot predict what, if any, additional regulations will be imposed on Optimum Online. VoIP. Our rollout of Optimum Voice, a VoIP service that is offered via our cable modem service as an add-on to our Optimum Online service, could also be affected by additional FCC decisions regulating VoIP, state attempts to regulate VoIP, and Congressional action. We cannot predict what, if any, statutory or regulatory obligations will be imposed on VoIP services like Optimum Voice, including the application of various indirect taxes, and what, if any, role state and local authorities will have in regulating these services. Universal Service. Lightpath and Optimum Voice are required to contribute to the federal universal service fund. Rather than use the current revenue-based approach, the FCC is considering assessing universal service contributions based on a flat-fee charge, such as a per-line or per-number charge. The FCC also is considering whether to apply universal service requirements to interconnected VoIP service providers on a permanent basis, and how contributions should be assessed in the future. States may also assess such payments and subsidies on Lightpath for state universal service programs, and some states are looking at whether VoIP services like Optimum Voice should be subject to state universal service contribution requirements. We cannot predict how the FCC and states may rule on these matters. Any changes to the assessment and recovery rules for universal service may affect Lightpath’s and Optimum Voice’s financial results. 32 Intercarrier Compensation. The FCC is currently reviewing whether to adopt a new regime to govern intercarrier compensation, including the adoption of unified compensation rates. In addition, proceedings have been initiated to determine what intercarrier compensation charges should apply to the termination of VoIP traffic. We cannot predict how the FCC might rule on these matters. Any changes to the current intercarrier compensation regime may affect Lightpath’s and Optimum Voice’s revenues. CPNI. The FCC is considering revising its CPNI rules to place additional restrictions on storage and use of CPNI. The revised rules may also extend the CPNI rules to VoIP services like Optimum Voice. Lightpath and Optimum Voice (if applicable) will be expected to comply with any future changes in CPNI regulations. Our current franchises are non-exclusive and our franchisors need not renew our franchises. Our cable television systems are operated primarily under non-exclusive franchise agreements with state or municipal government franchising authorities, in some cases with the approval of state cable television authorities. Consequently, our business is dependent on our ability to obtain and renew our franchises. Although we have never lost a franchise as a result of a failure to obtain a renewal, our franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination under some circumstances. In some cases, franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we operate under temporary authority from the state while negotiating renewal terms with the franchise authorities. As of December 31, 2006, one of our ten largest franchises is expired and we are currently operating in this area under temporary authority. Approximately 58,000 of the Company’s basic video customers are in this franchise area. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 