Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the SEC also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related To Our Business Capital constraints have resulted in the employees of Stratus not being paid on a regular basis from February 16, 2012 to the date of this report, the Company has vacated most of its office space and is behind on payments to a number of critical vendors. Capital constraints necessitated that the Company reduce staff beginning February 16, 2012 and the Company has not been able to pay employees on a regular basis, resulting in unpaid salaries of $1,152,933 as of December 31, 2012. During this period, a limited number of employees continued to provide services to the Company. While operations have continued on a limited basis during this time, activities were largely halted during this period for event production and development of the Stratus White credit card program. This furlough period may make it more difficult to restart the Company’s operations effectively. In addition, the Company has vacated three offices and now operates from a small office in Los Angeles. The Company is liable for rent payments for the remainder of the related lease terms and the present value of these payments was $1,260,645 as of December 31, 2012. Delays in payments for the Company’s office space and other vendors may have impaired the Company’s credit and standing with its suppliers such that more cash may be required to restart the Company’s operations and events. The Company will require significant additional funding to implement its business plan. The Company is actively engaged in raising capital, but there is no assurance it will be able to do so. If the Company cannot raise capital the ability of the Company to implement its business plan may be materially impacted. Our company is in early stages of development, which increases the risk of investments in our common stock. Once sufficient capital is obtained, we will be re-establishing our events, and will be in the process of bringing our staffing, infrastructure and marketing programs to an operational level. There are several experienced managers who have continued with the Company and will be the nucleus of the operational team, but restoring operations will be in the early stages of development. 4 We have incurred substantial losses, are in the process of establishing business operations, and have received a “going concern” qualification from our auditors, which indicates that there are substantial risks in our establishing profitable operations and that we will need capital to continue as a going concern. As noted in the opinion of our independent auditors, “The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern.” As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, we have suffered recurring losses and have negative cash flow from operations. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We had net losses for 2012 and 2011 of $13,846,229 and $15,927,846, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, we had negative working capital of $10,001,391 and an accumulated deficit of $56,027,608. The implementation of our business plan will require additional financing. Additional funds will be required to complete acquisitions and integrate them into the Company. Based on market conditions at the time, we may be unable to obtain sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by selling our equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors will be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than those of our existing investors. If we raise additional funds through debt financing, we could incur significant borrowing costs as well as face the possibility of default if we are unable to repay the financing. If we cannot obtain sufficient financing, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate our acquisition, marketing and promotion campaigns, which could significantly limit our revenues. Goodwill comprises most of our assets and is subject to impairment charges that would increase our losses. Such losses could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, the total of our goodwill was $1,935,621 or 79% of our total assets of $2,446,797. This goodwill is evaluated on an annual basis for impairment of the balance sheet value due to active or dormant status, competitive conditions, changes in our plans, and other factors that we determine are highly likely to reduce the ability of these assets to generate cash in the future. Given the Company’s current financial status, the Company plans to focus its current efforts on its ProElite MMA business and suspend development of its other businesses. Accordingly, all intangible assets other than the goodwill of ProElite, were considered to be fully impaired, resulting in an impairment expense of $1,423,844 for the year ended December 31, 2012. Additional impairment charges could be required in the future, which would increase losses and reduce our asset base accordingly and which could have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our strategy includes plans for expansion by acquisition, which will require additional capital. While we are investigating potential acquisitions, we have not commenced negotiations with any targets. We need to raise additional capital to complete any acquisitions, and there can be no assurances we will be able to do so, or will choose to do so. While we intend that the value added by acquisitions will more than offset the dilution created by the issuance of shares for acquisitions, there can be no assurance that this offset will occur. Additional financing for future acquisitions may be unavailable and, depending on the terms of the proposed acquisitions, financings may be restricted by the terms of credit agreements and privately placed debt securities contained in the financing. Any debt financing would require payments of principal and interest and would adversely impact our cash flow. Furthermore, future acquisitions may result in charges to operations relating to losses to the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, thereby increasing our losses or reducing or eliminating our earnings, if any. We are investigating potential acquisitions, which have inherent risks. Although management continues to investigate potential acquisitions, any acquisitions consummated by the Company involve substantial expenditures and risks on our part. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will be identified or completed successfully or, if completed, will yield the expected benefits to us, or will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the value attributed by the market to acquisitions will offset the dilution created by the issuance of any additional shares issued in connection with an acquisition. Furthermore, consummation of the intended acquisitions could result in charges to operations relating to losses from the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, which would increase our losses or reduce or eliminate our earnings, if any. As a result of the foregoing, there can be no assurance as to when the intended acquisitions will be consummated or that they will be consummated. Furthermore, the results of the intended acquisitions may fail to conform to the assumptions of management. Therefore, in analyzing the information in this document, stockholders should consider that the intended acquisitions may not be consummated at all. Future acquisitions by us could result in (a) potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, (b) the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and/or (c) incurrence of expenses for interest, operating losses and the write down of goodwill and other intangible assets, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that such acquisitions were to occur, there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. 5 We have not paid dividends on our stock, nor do we plan to do so for the foreseeable future. At the present time, we intend to reinvest any cash generated from operations into expansion of operations and do not intend to pay dividends. We will periodically evaluate the best means to bring value to shareholders and such evaluations could result in a continuation of this policy. Investors should look to the growth in value as the primary means of realizing a return on their investment and should not look to dividends for a return. There can be no assurance that our proposed operations will result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate at profitable levels or to generate positive cash flow. Any delay in the successful execution of our operations of or the acquisition and marketing strategies could delay the payment of dividends for an undetermined amount of time. RISKS RELATING TO MMA We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors. We face competition from existing international organizations such as Bellator and UFC. UFC produces MMA events for cable television through its agreement with Fox and for pay-per-view audiences. Bellator has a current television deal with Spike TV. For our live and television audiences, we also face competition from other professional and college sports as well as from other forms of live, filmed and televised entertainment and other leisure activities. We compete with entertainment companies, professional and college sports leagues and other makers of branded apparel and merchandise for the sale of our branded merchandise, including hats, t-shirts, sweatshirts, fight apparel, gloves, jackets and other similar items. Many of our competitors have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors have also been in operation for a longer period of time and have accumulated an installed base of fans. If we are unable to distinguish our MMA events and products from competing events, or if competing products reach the market first, we may be unable to compete successfully with current or future competitors. This would cause our revenues to decline and affect our ability to achieve profitability. We may be unable to compete with new competitors with greater resources that enter into the mixed martial arts industry. As the MMA industry continues to grow and gain mainstream popularity, new competitors will enter the MMA market and they may have superior resources to us. We may not have the resources necessary to compete with these new competitors, nor is there any guarantee that these new competitors will prevent the Company from accomplishing its goals. The establishment of relationships with advertisers is necessary for us to achieve significant revenues. Our revenue model includes revenues from advertising, which in turn depends on satisfactory distribution of our programming. We currently do not have in place distribution arrangements with any major cable or broadcast channels. If we are unable to develop sufficient relationships with key advertisers, we might not be able to achieve the revenues we are projecting. Our success depends on fan interest, so our business could fail if there is not a continued interest in our sport. MMA is a relatively new sport, so its continued popularity cannot be assumed like baseball, basketball, football, golf, or boxing. As public tastes can change frequently, interest in MMA may decline in the future. Such decline would threaten our ability to generate revenue and earn profits. The success of our live events depends upon our ability to recruit and develop relationships with key fighters. The success of our live events depends upon the ability of our production and management team to find, attract, and schedule fighters that appeal to the paying public. The audience appeal of our fighters is critical to maintaining interest in our events. There is no guarantee that we can sign, attract and retain popular fighters. There is no guarantee that the various state athletic commissions will certify a fighter once we have retained the fighter. There is no guarantee that the fighter will pass various drug screening tests that state commissions may require post event. Finally, due to the violent nature of this industry, we have no guarantee a fighter will be injury free at the time of an event which could cause the fighter to not be able to fight. This could negatively impact a given live event if the fighter is a headline person. We may be subject to claims that fighters we sign up do not have the right to participate in our events. Fighters we sign up may be subject to prior contractual commitments which prevent them from participating in all or certain of our events. This will negatively impact our live events if we are unable to resolve such conflicts prior to the live event or are unable to find an equally popular fighter of equal or substantially similar ability to replace the original fighter whose contractual commitment prevents him from participating in our event. 6 Our failure to develop creative and entertaining programs and events would likely have a significant impact on our bottom line. The creation, marketing and distribution of our live entertainment, including any PPV events, are at the core of our business plan and are critical to our ability to generate revenues across our media platforms and product outlets. Our failure to create popular and compelling live events would likely adversely affect our operating results. There could be unexpected costs associated with our live events. We may incur unexpected costs associated with promoting large-scale events. These costs could be related to, among other factors, production, distribution, or marketing overruns. These unexpected costs could significantly affect our profits. We may enter into agreements with other mixed martial arts organizations or promotion companies to co-promote or co-produce a live event. We cannot guarantee that any revenues or fees we receive in connection with such events will exceed our costs, nor can we guarantee that such events will increase our popularity in the mixed martial arts community. We may enter into agreements with other mixed martial arts organizations or promotion companies to co-promote or co-produce a live MMA event. We will have limited control over the promotion or production aspects of the event, which may impact the gate ticket sales at the event and affect gate revenues. We cannot guarantee that any revenues or fees we receive in connection with such events will exceed our costs. We cannot guarantee that promoting or producing a live event with another MMA organization or promotion company will not negatively impact our image in the MMA community. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are affected by general economic conditions, which generally may affect consumers’ disposable income and the level of advertising spending. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to the level of consumers’ disposable income. A decline in general economic conditions could reduce the level of discretionary income that our fans and potential fans have to spend on our live and televised entertainment and consumer products, which could adversely affect our revenues. We face uncertainties associated with international markets. We expect to produce events outside of the United States. Our production of live events overseas will subject us to the risks involved in foreign travel, local regulations, including regulations requiring us to obtain visas for our fighters, and political instability inherent in varying degrees in those markets. In addition, the licensing of our television and consumer products in international markets exposes us to some currency risk. These risks could adversely affect our operating results and impair our ability to pursue our business strategy as it relates to international markets. We may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events if we do not comply with applicable regulations. In various states in the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, athletic commissions and other applicable regulatory agencies require us to obtain licenses for promoters, medical clearances and/or other permits or licenses for performers and/or permits for events in order for us to promote and conduct our live events. In the event that we fail to comply with the regulations of a particular jurisdiction, we may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events in that jurisdiction. The inability to present our live events over an extended period of time or in a number of jurisdictions could lead to a decline in the various revenue streams generated from our live events, which could adversely affect our operating results. Liability claims in excess of our planned insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our live actions events could expose us to significant liability claims. These claims might be made directly by participants, attendees or our customers. A liability claim or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management attention from our operations and generate adverse publicity. This could harm our reputation, result in a decline in revenues and increase expenses. 7 Our products could give rise to claims that our technology, products or processes infringe on the rights of others. We are potentially subject to claims and litigation from third parties claiming that our products or processes infringe their patent or other proprietary rights. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture, use or sell the affected product or process. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us, may also be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of the patents or proprietary rights of others. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be true, will not prevent us from selling our products or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. We cannot assure you that a license will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unable to scale our operations successfully. Subject to the availability of capital, our plan is to grow rapidly. Our growth will place significant demands on our management and technology development, as well as our financial, administrative and other resources. We cannot guarantee that any of the systems, procedures and controls we put in place will be adequate to support the commercialization of our operations. Our operating results will depend substantially on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our financial, administrative and other resources. If we are unable to respond to and manage changing business conditions, or the scale of our products, services and operations, then the quality of our services, our ability to retain key personnel and our business could be harmed. We depend on certain key executive personnel and other key managerial personnel for our success, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued availability and contributions of members of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of services of any of these persons could delay or reduce our product development commercialization efforts, event management, and promotions and advertising efforts. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. The loss of members of our management team, key advisors or personnel, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors, could significantly weaken our management, harm our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. We may be unable to compete with larger or more established sports leagues for corporate advertising budgets. We face a large and growing number of competitors in the sports and entertainment industry. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, and more established relationships in the industry than does the Company. As a result, certain of these competitors may be in better positions to obtain corporate advertising. We cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. There are only a few major broadcast and cable networks that can distribute our programming to a sufficiently large audience, so we have only very limited alternatives if one or more of distributors performs unsatisfactorily, insists on unfavorable contract terms, or elects not to carry our programming. Our business plan contemplates widespread distribution of our programming to generate revenue, and interest sponsors and other advertisers. There are only a limited number of major cable networks and four major broadcast networks that include sports programming and provide sufficient market reach. Our choices are limited, and our ability to enter into distribution agreements with major broadcast and/or cable networks cannot be assured. If we are unable to make suitable distribution arrangements, our business plan will be materially impaired. Difficulty in retaining current fighters or recruiting future fighters could impair our prospects. The number of professional MMA fighters is small in relation to other professional sports, as is the number of first-rate, non-pro fighters who might fight professionally in the future. Our prospects could decline and investments in the Company could be impaired if our fighters are recruited by competitors or decide to pursue other occupations. The lack of working capital could result in our loss of some key fighters. 8 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence. For our live and television audiences, we face competition from professional and college sports, as well as from other forms of live and televised entertainment and other leisure activities in a rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented marketplace. Many of the companies with which we compete have greater financial resources than are available to us. Our failure to compete effectively could result in a significant loss of viewers, venues, distribution channels or athletes and fewer advertising dollars spent on our form of sporting events, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional needed personnel, our growth prospects will be limited, or our operations may be impaired. Our business requires uniquely trained and experienced professionals, and our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel. Qualified employees will be a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to retain necessary personnel, our business will probably suffer, and investors may incur losses on their investment in Stratus. Furthermore, our limited operating history may require Stratus to pay above market salaries in order to attract qualified personnel which could impact our profitability. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that occur during our physically demanding events. We plan to hold numerous live events each year. This schedule exposes our athletes who are involved in the production of those events to the risk of travel and event-related accidents, the consequences of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The physical nature of our events exposes athletes and coaches to the risk of serious injury or death. Liability extending to us resulting from any death or serious injury sustained by one of the athletes during an event, to the extent not covered by our insurance, if any, could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere and related private-sector initiatives could adversely affect our business. Although the production and distribution of television programming by independent producers is not directly regulated by the federal or state governments in the U.S., the marketplace for television programming in the United States is affected significantly by government regulations applicable to, as well as social and political influences on, television stations, television networks and cable and satellite television systems and channels. Assuming we enter into distribution arrangements, we plan to voluntarily designate the suitability of each of our television programs for audiences using standard industry practices. A number of governmental and private sector initiatives relating to the content of media programming in recent years have been announced in response to recent events unrelated to us or MMA. Changes in governmental policy and private sector perceptions could further restrict our program content and adversely affect our viewership levels and operating results, as well as the willingness of broadcasters to distribute our programming. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Because we expect to depend upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights or prevent their infringement by others could adversely affect our business. We anticipate that intellectual property will be material to all aspects of our operations, and we may expend substantial cost and effort in an attempt to maintain and protect our intellectual property. We plan to have a portfolio of registered trademarks and service marks and maintain a catalog of copyrighted works, including copyrights to television programming and photographs. Our inability to protect this portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material, trade names and other intellectual property rights from piracy, counterfeiting or other unauthorized use could negatively affect our business. We may be subject to claims of trademark infringement, which may harm our business. We may be subject to legal proceedings alleging claims of trademark infringement in the future. If we must rebrand, it may result in significant marketing expenses and additional management time and resources, which may adversely affect our business. We also cannot guarantee that our trademarks will be protected. If others infringe on our trademarks, it may cause harm to our brand and ultimately, to us, and we could be forced to spend additional time and resources fighting such infringement. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. If intellectual property rights relating to past or future acquisitions are challenged by third parties, we could incur significant costs to defend such rights and/or we could be required to pay license fees to such third parties if they were to prevail in a legal challenge to such intellectual property rights. 9 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and the stock is thinly traded. If trading volume increases in the future, the fluctuations in price could be greater than those experienced in the past. From March 28, 2011 to March 28, 2013, the average price of our common stock was $ 0.48 per share, with a low of $0.08 and a high of $ 1.00, on an average trading volume per day of 29,467 shares. The closing price of our common stock on March 28, 2013 was $0.15. As noted below, it is possible that trading volumes could increase significantly and such increased volume could lead to significant fluctuations in the price of our stock. The company is the result of a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resulting in a limitation on shareholder’s use of Rule 144 exemptions for resale. Since the Company had a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resale of your shares under Rule 144 may be limited. The use of Rule 144 is the most common method of selling restricted shares. Rule 144(i) pertains to shares issued by a former shell company that executed a reverse merger. Under Rule 144(i), sales of shares may only be made under certain conditions, including a sale or intended sale of the stock and if we have filed all Annual and Quarterly reports required under the securities laws. Therefore permission may be granted to remove the restrictive legend on stock certificates only for a specified sale of securities and not as a “blanket” removal of the restrictive legend. We have significant amounts of stock eligible for resale under a Rule 144(i) exemption. Sales of such stock could depress the stock price significantly. As of December 31, 2012 we had 89,083,677 shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 7,013,401 shares are freely-trading and 81,284,157 shares are, under certain conditions and restrictions, eligible for resale under Rule 144(i) or will be covered by a post-effective registration statement upon effectiveness. We plan to file the post-effective registration statement shortly after filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Of such 81,284,157 shares, 26,416,341 shares are held by our former Chairman and CEO that have significant limitations on resale and 9,405,000 shares are held by an affiliate with volume restrictions on resale, leaving 45,462,816 shares eligible for resale under Rule 144(i) with less difficult restrictions. If these security holders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The Series E Preferred Stock contains a full ratchet-down provision that has significantly increased the number of common shares that could be issued in the future and could do so again if triggered without a waiver. This full ratchet-down provision provides that if the Company issues securities for less than the existing conversion price for the Series E Preferred Stock or the strike price of the Series E warrants, then the conversion price for Series E Preferred Stock will be lowered to that lower price. Also, the strike price for Series E warrants will be decreased to that lower price and the number of Series E warrants will be increased such that the product of the original strike price times the original quantity equals the lower strike price times the higher quantity. In April 2012, this full ratchet-down provision was triggered when $249,999 of notes were issued on April 4, 2012 that contained a $0.30 conversion feature. Accordingly, the conversion price went from $0.40 to $0.30 cents, resulting in the number of conversion shares increasing from 21,125,000 to 28,166,667 and resulting in the strike price of the warrants to drop from $0.65 to $1.00 to $0.30 and the number of warrants increasing from 37,975,000 to 94,966,667. In pursuing future financings, the Company intends to have the holders of the Series E Preferred to waive this provision, but there is no certainty that the Company will be successful and any future financings of less than $0.30 a shares could result in a significant increase in the number of shares that may be issued in the future. The Company’s Series E Preferred Stock are considered to have “embedded derivative securities” under U.S GAAP, which means that the Company’s net income/(loss) is subject to significant variations unrelated to its operating income or cash flow generated from operations. As noted elsewhere in this Report, the full ratchet-down provision in the Company’s Series E Preferred Stock provides that if the Company issues securities for less than the existing conversion price for the Series E Preferred Stock or the strike price of the Series E warrants, then the conversion price for Series E Preferred Stock will be lowered to that lower price. Subsequent to the issuance of this Series E, the Company has determined that the warrants for these financings included certain embedded derivative features as set forth in ASC 815, “Derivatives and Hedging,” (“ASC 815”) and that this conversion feature of the Series E was not an embedded derivative because this feature was clearly and closely related to the host (Series E) as defined in ASC 815. These derivative liabilities were initially recorded at their estimated fair value on the date of issuance and are subsequently adjusted each quarter to reflect the estimated fair value at the end of each period, with any decrease or increase in the estimated fair value of the derivative liability for each period being recorded as other income or expense. Since the value of the embedded derivative feature for the related warrants was higher than the value of both Series E transactions, there was no beneficial conversion feature recorded for either transaction, and the excess of the value of the embedded derivative feature over the value of the transaction was recorded in each year on the Statement of Operations as a separate line item for each year presented. The fair value of these derivative liabilities is calculated using the commonly-accepted Black Scholes pricing model that is based on the following as of the date of calculation: the closing price of the common stock, the strike price of the underlying instrument, the risk-free interest rate for the applicable remaining life of the underlying instrument (i.e., the U.S. treasury rate for that period) and the historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. These fair value results are extremely sensitive to all these input variables, particularly the closing price of the company’s common stock and the volatility of the Company’s common stock. Accordingly, the fair value of these derivative liabilities are subject to significant changes, which means that the reported net gain or loss of the Company is subject to significant changes unrelated to its operating income or cash flow generated by operations, which could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, Paul Feller, Dr. Ralph Feller, and certain holders of our Series E Preferred Stock have voting control of Stratus. Paul Feller, our founder and former Chief Executive Officer, currently owns 26,416,341 shares of our Common Stock. The shares are subject to the grant of voting rights in favor of the Company until June 28,2013. Dr. Ralph Feller, Mr. Feller’s father, owns 9,405,000 shares. Additionally, under the terms of our Series E Preferred Stock, the holders have voting rights on an as converted basis. Certain trusts affiliated with Isaac Blech and Mr. Blech’s wife own shares of Series E Preferred Stock equivalent to 23,333,334 shares of Common Stock. Assuming no additional shares are issued and after expiration of the voting agreement, Mr. Feller will have voting power as to approximately 22% of our shares, Dr. Feller as to approximately 8% of our shares and the foregoing Series E holders as to approximately 19% of our shares. Holders of Series E Preferred Stock as a group have approximately 26% of total voting rights. 10 As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and might adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. We do not foresee paying cash dividends on common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. THE FOREGOING IS A SUMMARY OF SOME OF THE MORE SIGNIFICANT RISKS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN STRATUS MEDIA GROUP. THE FOREGOING SHOULD NOT BE INTERPRETED AS A REPRESENTATION THAT THE MATTERS REFERRED TO HEREIN ARE THE ONLY RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NEITHER THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NOR THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS HEREIN SHOULD BE DEEMED A REPRESENTATION THAT SUCH RISKS ARE OF EQUAL MAGNITUDE. PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS ARE URGED TO CONSULT THEIR OWN ADVISORS AS TO THE INVESTMENT AND ANY TAX CONSEQUENCES OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable for smaller reporting companies. 