Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisk Factors Relating to the MergerWe may fail to consummate the Merger, and uncertainties related to the consummation of the Merger may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact Cablevision's share price.As previously discussed, on September 16, 2015, Cablevision entered into the Merger Agreement with Altice and its wholly owned subsidiary, Merger Sub. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Cablevision, with Cablevision surviving the Merger as a subsidiary of Altice. In connection with the Merger, each outstanding Share (of both the CNYG Class A Shares and the CNYG Class B Shares) (other than (i) Shares owned by Cablevision, Altice or any of their respective wholly owned subsidiaries, in each case not held on behalf of third parties in a fiduciary capacity, and (ii) Shares that are owned by stockholders who have perfected and not withdrawn a demand for appraisal rights) will be converted into the right to receive $34.90 in cash, without interest, less any applicable tax withholdings. The Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions beyond our control, including regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. There is no assurance that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will occur on the terms and timeline currently contemplated or at all. The conditions to the Merger could prevent or delay the completion of the Merger. In addition, the efforts to satisfy the closing conditions of the Merger, including the regulatory approval process, may place a significant burden on management and internal resources, and the Merger and related transactions, whether or not consummated, may result in a diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations and a disruption of our operations. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business and any difficulties encountered in the Merger process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Merger Agreement also contains certain customary termination rights, including the right for each of Cablevision and Altice to terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger is not consummated by September 16, 2016 (subject to extension to December 16, 2016 if either Cablevision or Altice determines additional time is necessary to obtain certain government approvals) or in the event of an uncured material breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement such that the conditions to closing would not be satisfied. If the proposed Merger is not completed or the Merger Agreement is terminated, the price of the Shares may decline, including to the extent that the current market price of Shares reflects an assumption that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be consummated without unexpected delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.17We are subject to various uncertainties and restrictions on the conduct of our business while the Merger is pending, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, and other third parties who deal with us may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel pending the consummation of the Merger, as such personnel may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the consummation of the Merger. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers, vendors and other third parties who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us or fail to extend an existing relationship with us, and competitors may target our existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and difficulties that may result from the Merger, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from taking certain actions without Altice's consent while the Merger is pending. These restrictions may, among other matters, prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, selling assets, making certain capital expenditures, refinancing indebtedness, entering into transactions or making other changes to our business prior to consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. These restrictions and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Altice’s financing in connection with the Merger will result in increased indebtedness and leverage on the Company.As described above, Altice has issued the Term Loans and the Notes and may borrow additional amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility. Following the consummation of the Merger, this debt will become obligations of CSC Holdings and certain of its subsidiaries. This will materially increase the total outstanding indebtedness and leverage of the Company.Risk Factors Relating to Our BusinessOur financial performance may continue to be harmed by the significant and credible risks of competition in our Cable and Lightpath segments.The loss of customers due to enhanced competition has adversely affected our business and financial results and may continue to do so. The effects of competition may adversely affect our ability to service our debt. This risk is heightened by the rapid technological change inherent in our business and the need to acquire, develop and adopt new technology to differentiate our products and services from our competitors. We may need to anticipate far in advance which technology we should use for the development of new products and services or the enhancement of existing products and services. In addition, changes in the regulatory and legislative environments may result in changes to the competitive landscape.Our cable systems operate in an intensely competitive environment, competing with a variety of video, data and voice providers and delivery systems, including telephone companies, wireless data and voice providers, satellite-delivered video signals, Internet-delivered video content, and broadcast television signals available to homes within our market by over-the-air reception.We face competition from two telephone companies, Verizon and Frontier, who offer video programming in addition to high-speed data and VoIP services to residential and business customers in our service area. The attractive demographics of our service territory make this region a desirable location for investment in distribution technologies by these companies. We face intense competition from Verizon who has constructed a fiber to the home network plant that passes a significant number of households in our service area. Verizon does not publicly report the extent of their build-out or penetration by area. Our estimate of Verizon's build out and sales activity in our service area is difficult to assess because it is based upon visual inspections and other limited estimating techniques, and therefore serves only as an approximation. We estimate that Verizon is currently able to sell a fiber-based video service, as well as high-speed data and VoIP services, to at least half of the households in our service area. In certain other portions of our service area, Verizon has also built its fiber network where we believe it is not currently able to sell its fiber-based video service, but is able to sell its high-speed data and VoIP services. In these areas (as well as other parts of our service area) Verizon markets DBS services along with its high-speed data and VoIP services. Verizon’s fiber network also passes areas where we believe it is not currently able to sell its video, high-speed data or VoIP services. Accordingly, Verizon may increase the number of customers in our service area to whom it is able to sell video, high-speed data and VoIP services in the future. 18Frontier offers video service, as well as high-speed data and VoIP services, in competition with us in most of our Connecticut service area. Frontier also markets DBS services in this service area. Verizon and Frontier have made and may continue to make promotional offers at prices lower than ours. This competition affects our ability to add or retain customers and creates pressure upon the pricing of our services. Competition, particularly from Verizon, which has significantly greater financial resources than we do, has negatively impacted our revenues and caused subscriber declines in our service areas. To the extent Verizon and Frontier continue to offer competitive and promotional packages, our ability to maintain or increase our existing customers and revenue will continue to be negatively impacted. Verizon also has its own cellular phone facilities and may expand its bundled product offerings to include cellular phone services which could compete with our Freewheel all-WiFi phone service and could adversely affect our competitive position. See "Regulation" for a discussion of regulatory and legislative issues.We also face competition from two major DBS providers in our service area, DISH Network and DIRECTV, each with significantly higher numbers of subscribers than we have. These companies each offer video programming that is substantially similar to the video service that we offer, at competitive prices. Our ability to compete with these DBS services is affected by the quality and quantity of programming available to us and to them. DIRECTV has exclusive arrangements with the National Football League that gives it access to programming that we cannot offer. DBS operators also have marketing arrangements with certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services. Each of these competitors has significantly greater financial resources than we do.Another source of competition for our Cable segment is the delivery of video content over the Internet directly to subscribers. This competition comes from a number of different sources, including companies that deliver movies, television shows and other video programming over broadband Internet connections, such as Netflix, Google Inc.'s "YouTube" and Amazon.com, Inc.'s "Prime". Verizon offers a mobile video delivery service called Go90 and DISH Network has a product offering Internet delivery of a number of cable networks called Sling TV. Increasingly, content owners are utilizing Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee for access to the content. Consumers are also able to watch such Internet-delivered content on television and mobile devices. The availability of these services has and will continue to adversely affect customer demand for our video services, including premium and on-demand services. Our video service also faces competition from broadcast television stations, entities that make digital video recorded movies and programs available for home rental or sale, SMATV systems, which generally serve large multiple dwelling units under an agreement with the landlord and service providers, and OVS operators. There can be no assurance that these or other existing, proposed, or as yet undeveloped technologies will not become dominant in the future and render our video service offering less profitable or even obsolete.Internet access services are also offered by providers of wireless services, including traditional cellular phone carriers and others focused solely on wireless data services. The FCC is likely to continue to make additional radio spectrum available for these wireless Internet access services.Our VoIP service also faces competition from other competitive providers of voice services, including wireless voice providers, as well as VoIP providers like Vonage that do not own networks but can provide service to any person with a broadband connection.Lightpath operates in a highly competitive business telecommunications market and competes against the very largest telecommunications companies - including ILECs, other CLECs, and long distance voice service companies. More specifically, Lightpath faces substantial competition from Verizon and Frontier which are the dominant providers of local telephone and broadband services in their respective service areas. Verizon has significant advantages over Lightpath, including greater capital resources, an existing fully operational local network, and long-standing relationships with customers. To the extent these competitors decide to reduce their prices, future success of our Lightpath business may be negatively impacted.See a further discussion regarding competition in "Item 1. Business - Competition".We face significant risks as a result of rapid changes in technology and consumer expectations and behavior.The telecommunications services industry has undergone significant technological development over time and these changes continue to affect our business. Such changes have had, and will continue to have, a profound impact on 19consumer expectations and behavior. Our video business faces technological change risks as a result of the continuing development of new and changing methods for delivery of programming content such as Internet based delivery of movies, shows and other content which can be viewed on televisions, wireless devices and other developing mobile devices. A proliferation of delivery systems for video content can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers and the demand for our services and it can also decrease advertising demand on our delivery systems. Our high-speed data business faces technological challenges from rapidly evolving wireless Internet solutions. Our voice service offerings face technological developments in the proliferation of voice delivery systems including those based on Internet and wireless delivery. If we do not develop or acquire and successfully implement new technologies, we will limit our ability to compete effectively for subscribers, content and advertising. In addition, we may be required to make material capital and other investments to anticipate and to keep up with technological change. These challenges could adversely affect our business.Programming costs of our Cable segment are increasing and we may not have the ability to pass these increases on to our subscribers. Disputes with programmers can adversely affect our relationship with subscribers and lead to subscriber losses.Programming costs paid by our Cable segment are one of our largest categories of expenses. These costs have increased rapidly and are expected to continue to increase, particularly with respect to costs for sports programming and broadcast networks. We may not be able to pass programming cost increases on to our subscribers due to the increasingly competitive environment. If we are unable to pass these increased programming costs on to our subscribers, our operating results would be adversely affected.We attempt to control our programming costs and, therefore, the cost of our video services to our customers by negotiating favorable terms for the renewal of our affiliation agreements with programmers. On certain occasions in the past, such negotiations have led to disputes with programmers that have resulted in temporary periods where we were not carrying a particular broadcast network or programming service or services. Such disputes may inconvenience some of our subscribers and can lead to customer dissatisfaction and, in certain cases, the loss of customers.The financial markets are subject to volatility and disruptions, which have in the past, and may in the future, adversely affect our business, including by affecting the cost of new capital, our ability to refinance our scheduled debt maturities and our ability to meet our other obligations as they come due.The capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption. At times, the markets have exerted extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and have severely restricted credit availability for most issuers.Market disruptions in the past were accompanied by a broader economic downturn, which led to lower demand for our products, such as video services, as well as lower levels of television and newspaper advertising, and increased incidence of customers' inability to pay for the services we provide. A recurrence of those conditions may further adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.We rely on the capital markets, particularly for offerings of debt securities, as well as the credit markets, to meet our financial commitments and liquidity needs. Disruptions and/or volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to refinance on satisfactory terms, or at all, our scheduled debt maturities and could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility.Economic downturns may impact our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our indentures, credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness and may impact our ability to pay our indebtedness as it comes due. If we do not repay our debt obligations when they become due and do not otherwise comply with the covenants and restrictions in our indentures, credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we would be in default under those agreements, and the debt incurred under those agreements could then be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, any default under our indentures, credit facilities or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our indentures, credit facilities and our other debt instruments were accelerated, we would not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due thereunder. To avoid a default, we could be required to defer capital expenditures, sell assets, seek strategic investments from third parties or reduce or eliminate dividend payments and stock repurchases or other discretionary uses of cash. However, if such measures were to become necessary, there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell sufficient assets or raise strategic investment capital 20sufficient to meet our scheduled debt maturities as they come due. In addition, any significant reduction in necessary capital expenditures could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customer base and obtain new customers, which would adversely affect our future operating results, cash flows and financial position.Disruptions in the capital and credit markets can also result in higher interest rates on publicly issued debt securities and increased costs under credit facilities. Such disruptions would increase our interest expense, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial position.Our access to funds under our revolving credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to those facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our revolving credit facilities are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others.Longer term, volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.We have substantial indebtedness and we are highly leveraged, which reduces our capability to withstand adverse developments or business conditions.We have incurred substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance operations, upgrade our cable plant and acquire other cable systems, sources of programming and other businesses. We have also incurred substantial indebtedness in order to offer new or upgraded services to our current and potential customers and to pursue activities outside our core businesses, such as our acquisitions of Clearview Cinemas (substantially all of whose assets were sold in 2013) and Newsday. In 2006, CSC Holdings incurred $3.5 billion of debt, approximately $3.0 billion of which was distributed to Cablevision to fund a $10 per share dividend on its common stock and approximately $414 million of which was used to repay existing indebtedness, including interest, fees and expenses. In December 2010, we incurred approximately $1.4 billion of indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Bresnan Cable, which was sold in 2013. In connection with the Merger, we will incur substantial amounts of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. At December 31, 2015, our total aggregate indebtedness was approximately $9.6 billion (without giving effect to the Merger and the related debt assumptions and refinancing transactions that will occur on the Closing Date). On the Closing date, the total outstanding indebtedness and leverage of the Company will materially increase. Because of our substantial indebtedness, we are highly leveraged and we will continue to be highly leveraged. This means that our payments on our borrowings are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flow. This leverage exposes us to significant risk in the event of downturns in our businesses (whether through competitive pressures or otherwise), in our industries or in the economy generally, because although our cash flows would decrease in this scenario, our required payments in respect of indebtedness would not.We have in past periods incurred substantial losses from continuing operations, we have a significant stockholders' deficiency, and we may in the future incur losses from continuing operations which could be substantial, which may reduce our ability to raise needed capital.We have in the past reported losses from continuing operations and we may do so in the future. Significant losses from continuing operations could adversely affect our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our debt agreements and could limit our ability to raise needed financing, or to do so on favorable terms, as such losses could be taken into account by potential investors, lenders and the organizations that issue investment ratings on our indebtedness.A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by ratings agencies may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.The debt ratings for our debt securities are below the "investment grade" category, which results in higher borrowing costs as well as a reduced pool of potential purchasers of our debt as some investors will not purchase debt securities that are not rated in an investment grade rating category. In addition, there can be no assurance that any rating assigned will remain for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency, 21if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. A lowering or withdrawal of a rating may further increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.Our ability to meet our obligations under our indebtedness may be restricted by limitations on our subsidiaries' ability to send us funds.Cablevision's sole subsidiary is CSC Holdings. CSC Holdings' principal subsidiaries include various entities that own cable systems and other businesses. Cablevision's ability to pay interest and principal on its outstanding indebtedness is dependent upon the operations of CSC Holdings and its subsidiaries and the distributions or other payments of the cash they generate to Cablevision in the form of distributions, loans or advances. Similarly, CSC Holdings' ability to pay interest and principal on its indebtedness is dependent in part on distributions from its subsidiaries. The Company's subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Company's indebtedness or to make any funds available to the Company to do so. In addition, Newsday is a party to a credit agreement that contains various financial and operating covenants that restrict the payment of dividends or other distributions. Also, our subsidiaries' creditors, including trade creditors, in the event of a liquidation or reorganization of any subsidiary, would be entitled to a claim on the assets of such subsidiaries, including any assets transferred to those subsidiaries, prior to any of our claims as a stockholder and those creditors are likely to be paid in full before any distribution is made to us. To the extent that we are a creditor of a subsidiary, our claims could be subordinated to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and/or any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us. See “-Risk Factors Relating to the Merger - Altice’s financing in connection with the Merger will result in increased indebtedness and leverage on the Company.” Our ability to incur debt and the use of our funds are limited by significant restrictive covenants in financing agreements.Our credit facilities and debt instruments contain various financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require the maintenance of financial ratios and restrict the relevant borrower's ability to incur debt from other sources and to use funds for various purposes, including investments in some subsidiaries. Violation of these covenants could result in a default that would permit the parties who have lent money under such credit facilities and such other debt instruments to:•restrict the ability to borrow undrawn funds under such credit facilities, and•require the immediate repayment of the borrowings thereunder.These events would be likely to have a material adverse effect on the value of our debt and equity securities.We will need to raise significant amounts of funding over the next several years to fund capital expenditures, repay existing obligations and meet other obligations and the failure to do so successfully could adversely affect our business. We may also engage in extraordinary transactions that involve the incurrence of large amounts of debt.Our business is very capital intensive. Operating and maintaining our cable systems requires significant amounts of cash payments to third parties. Capital expenditures were $816.4 million, $891.7 million and $951.7 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and primarily include payments for customer premise equipment, such as new digital video cable boxes and modems, as well as infrastructure and capital expenditures related to our cable and Lightpath networks, in addition to the capital requirements of our other businesses. Historically, we have made substantial investments in the development of new and innovative programming options and other service offerings for our customers as a way of differentiating ourselves from our competitors and may continue to do so in the future. For example, we have deployed WiFi access points throughout our footprint. We expect these capital expenditures to continue to be significant as we further enhance our service offerings. We have substantial future capital commitments in the form of long-term contracts that require substantial payments over a period of time. We will not be able to generate sufficient cash internally to fund anticipated capital expenditures, meet these obligations and repay our indebtedness at maturity. Accordingly, we will have to do one or more of the following:•refinance existing obligations to extend maturities;•raise additional capital, through debt or equity issuances or both; •cancel or scale back current and future spending programs; or22•sell assets or interests in one or more of our businesses.However, you should not assume that we will be able to refinance existing obligations or raise any required additional capital or to do so on favorable terms. Borrowing costs related to future capital raising activities may be significantly higher than our current borrowing costs and we may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, if unsettled conditions in financial markets recur. If we are unable to pursue our current and future spending programs, we may be forced to cancel or scale back those programs. Our choice of which spending programs to cancel or reduce may be limited. Failure to successfully pursue our capital expenditure and other spending plans could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. It is possible that in the future we may also engage in extraordinary transactions and such transactions could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness.Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and changes in current or future laws or regulations could restrict our ability to operate our business as we currently do.Our cable and other telecommunications businesses are heavily regulated and operate pursuant to detailed statutory and regulatory requirements at the federal, state and local level. The FCC and state and local governments regulate us in ways that affect the daily conduct of our video delivery and video programming businesses, our voice business and our high-speed Internet access businesses. In addition, our businesses are dependent upon governmental authorizations to carry on their operations. See discussion under "Item 1. Business -Regulation".Legislative enactments, court actions, and federal, state, and local regulatory proceedings frequently modify the terms under which we offer our services and operate. The results of these legislative, judicial and administrative actions may materially adversely affect our business or results of operations. For example, new requirements giving third parties access to our network or other assets, limits on how we offer broadband service or the rates we charge for it, or new regulations that confer asymmetrical benefits on online video distributors could materially affect our ability to compete. Changes to regulations from which we benefit and on which we depend to run our businesses also could materially affect our operations. Any action with respect to these or other matters by the courts, Congress, the FCC, the states of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, or concerted action by local regulators, the likelihood or extent of which we cannot predict, could have a material adverse effect on us.Our current franchises are non-exclusive and our franchisors need not renew our franchises.Our cable television systems are operated primarily under non-exclusive franchise agreements with state and/or municipal or county franchising authorities, with the latter in some states also subject to approval of state regulatory authorities. Consequently, our business is dependent on our ability to obtain and renew our franchises. Although we have never lost a franchise as a result of a failure to obtain a renewal, our franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination under some circumstances. In some cases franchise agreements have not been renewed by the expiration date, and we operate under temporary authority routinely granted from the state while negotiating renewal terms with the franchise authorities. As of December 31, 2015, our ten largest franchise areas comprised approximately 57% of our total video customers and of those, one franchise, the Town of Hempstead, New York, comprising an aggregate of approximately 86,000 video customers, was expired. We are currently lawfully operating in the Town of Hempstead, New York franchise area under temporary authority recognized by the State of New York.We rely on network and information systems for our operations, and a disruption or failure of those systems may disrupt our operations.Network and information systems are essential to our ability to deliver our services to our customers. We have in place multiple security systems designed to protect against intentional or unintentional disruption, failure, misappropriation or corruption of our network and information systems. A problem of this type might be caused by events such as computer hacking, computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, "cyber attacks" and other malicious activity, as well as natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks and similar events. Such events could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our plant, equipment and data. Operational or business delays may result from the disruption of network or information systems and the subsequent remediation activities. Moreover, these events may create negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers and our results of operations could suffer. We also use certain vendors to supply some of the hardware, software and support of our network. If these vendors are unable to provide equipment or service for any reason, for example due to breach of contract, operational difficulties or financial difficulties, our ability to replace these vendors may be limited, which could negatively impact our operations.23We have expended, and expect to continue to spend in the future, significant amounts to protect our network and information systems; however, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent any of the problems identified above.If we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, our results of operations and reputation could suffer.The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of information about our customers and employees. We have procedures in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities. If our efforts to protect the security of information about our customers and employees are unsuccessful, a significant data security breach may result in costly government enforcement actions, private litigation, and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers, and our results of operations could suffer.A portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions. Collective bargaining agreements can increase our expenses. Labor disruptions could adversely affect our operations.As of December 31, 2015, 716 of our full-time employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements (approximately 245 of which are primarily technicians in Brooklyn, New York, who are members of the Communication Workers of America ("CWA")). The Company and the CWA entered into a collective bargaining agreement in 2015. Collective bargaining agreements with the CWA covering this group of employees or agreements with other unionized employees may increase our expenses. In addition, any disruptions to our operations due to labor related problems could have an adverse effect on our business.Our Newsday business has suffered operating losses historically and such losses are expected to continue in the future.Newsday suffered operating losses of $27.2 million, $37.7 million, and $71.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, which included impairments of intangible assets of $5.8 million, and $37.5 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Operating losses are expected to continue in the future. As of December 31, 2015, Newsday had a credit facility outstanding which consisted of a $480 million floating rate term loan guaranteed by CSC Holdings. In addition, at December 31, 2015, Newsday Holdings held approximately $611 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued by Cablevision. Newsday has agreed that it will hold Cablevision or CSC Holdings senior notes or cash balances in excess of the amount of borrowings outstanding under its senior secured credit facility until it matures in October 2016.Demand for advertising, increased competition and declines in circulation affect Newsday.A majority of the revenues of our Newsday business are from advertising. Expenditures by advertisers generally reflect economic conditions and declines in national and local economic conditions affect demand for advertising and the levels of advertising revenue for Newsday.Newsday operates in a highly competitive market which may adversely affect advertising and circulation revenues. Newsday faces significant competition for advertising revenue from a variety of media sources, including other newspapers that reach a similar audience, magazines, shopping guides, websites, mobile-device platforms, broadcast and cable television, radio, and direct marketing; particularly if those media sources provide advertising services that could substitute for those provided by Newsday within the same geographic area. Specialized websites for real estate, automobile and help wanted advertising have become increasingly competitive with our newspapers and websites for classified advertising and further development of additional targeted websites is likely.The newspaper industry generally has experienced significant declines in advertising and circulation revenue as circulation and readership levels continue to be adversely affected by competition from new media news formats and less reliance on newspapers by consumers. Newsday has experienced similar advertising revenue declines. A prolonged decline in circulation would have a material adverse effect on the rate and volume of advertising revenues.24A significant amount of our book value consists of intangible assets that may not generate cash in the event of a voluntary or involuntary sale.At December 31, 2015, we reported approximately $6.9 billion of consolidated total assets, of which approximately $1.0 billion were intangible. Intangible assets primarily include franchises from city and county governments to operate cable television systems and goodwill. While we believe that the carrying values of our intangible assets are recoverable, you should not assume that we would receive any cash from the voluntary or involuntary sale of these intangible assets, particularly if we were not continuing as an operating business. We urge you to read carefully our consolidated financial statements contained herein, which provide more detailed information about these intangible assets.The MSG Distribution and the AMC Networks Distribution could result in significant tax liability.We have received private letter rulings from the IRS to the effect that, among other things, the MSG Distribution (whereby Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of The Madison Square Garden Company ("Madison Square Garden"), a company which owns the sports, entertainment and media businesses previously owned and operated by the Company's Madison Square Garden segment) and the AMC Networks Distribution (whereby Cablevision distributed to its stockholders all of the outstanding common stock of AMC Networks, a company which consisted principally of national programming networks, including AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel, previously owned and operated by the Company's Rainbow segment) and certain related transactions, will qualify for tax-free treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, if the factual representations or assumptions made in the letter ruling request are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the ruling. Furthermore, the IRS will not rule on whether a distribution satisfies certain requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment under the Code. Rather, the ruling is based upon our representations that these conditions have been satisfied, and any inaccuracy in such representations could invalidate the ruling.If the MSG Distribution or the AMC Networks Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the Madison Square Garden common stock or AMC Networks common stock, as the case may be, in a taxable sale for its fair value. Cablevision stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair value of Madison Square Garden common stock or AMC Networks common stock, as the case may be, that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated as a taxable dividend. It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to Cablevision's stockholders and us would be substantial.We rely on Madison Square Garden's and AMC Networks' performance under various agreements.In connection with the MSG Distribution and the AMC Networks Distribution, we entered into various agreements with Madison Square Garden and AMC Networks, respectively, including a distribution agreement, a tax disaffiliation agreement, a transition services agreement, an employee matters agreement and certain related party arrangements. These agreements govern our relationship with those entities subsequent to the distributions and provide for the allocation of employee benefits, taxes and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the distributions. These agreements also include arrangements with respect to transition services and a number of on-going commercial relationships. The distribution agreements include agreements that we and those entities agree to provide each other with indemnities with respect to liabilities arising out of the businesses we transferred to those entities. We are also party to other arrangements with Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks, and AMC Networks, such as affiliation agreements covering the MSG networks and AMC, WE tv, IFC and Sundance Channel. We and these entities will rely on the other to perform its obligations under these agreements. If Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks, or AMC Networks were to breach or to be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.We share certain executives and directors with Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks and AMC Networks, which means those executives will not devote their full time and attention to our affairs.Our Chairman, Charles F. Dolan, serves as Executive Chairman of AMC Networks and our Chief Executive Officer, James L. Dolan, also serves as the Executive Chairman of Madison Square Garden and MSG Networks. This arrangement is similar to the historical situation whereby Mr. Dolan had served as a senior officer of Madison Square Garden and Charles F. Dolan provided senior leadership to our Rainbow segment. In addition, our Vice Chairman, Gregg G. Seibert, 25also serves as the Vice Chairman of Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks and AMC Networks. As a result, three senior executives of the Company are not devoting their full time and attention to the Company's affairs. In addition, six members of our Board of Directors are also directors of Madison Square Garden, four members of our Board of Directors are also directors of MSG Networks, and eight members of our Board of Directors are also directors of AMC Networks.Our overlapping directors and executives may result in the diversion of corporate opportunities and other potential conflicts.Our Board of Directors has adopted a policy that acknowledges that directors and officers of the Company may also be serving as directors, officers, employees or agents of Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks or AMC Networks and their respective subsidiaries and that the Company may engage in material business transactions with such entities. The Company renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and the new policy provides that no director or officer of the Company who is also serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks or AMC Networks and their respective subsidiaries will be liable to the Company or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise exist by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in the policy) to Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks or AMC Networks or any of their respective subsidiaries instead of the Company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to the Company. The policy expressly validates certain contracts, agreements, assignments and transactions (and amendments, modifications or terminations thereof) between the Company and Madison Square Garden, MSG Networks or AMC Networks and/or any of their respective subsidiaries and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, provides that the actions of the overlapping directors or officers in connection therewith are not breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the Company, any of its subsidiaries or their respective stockholders.We are controlled by the Dolan family. As a result of their control of us, the Dolan family has the ability to prevent or cause a change in control or approve, prevent or influence certain actions by us.Cablevision has two classes of common stock:•CNYG Class B Shares, or Class B common stock, which is generally entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect 75% of the Cablevision Board of Directors, and•CNYG Class A Shares, or Class A common stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 25% of the Cablevision Board of Directors.As of February 19, 2016, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family, collectively beneficially owned all of Cablevision's Class B common stock, approximately 3.6% of Cablevision's outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 72% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. Of this amount, our Chairman, Charles F. Dolan, beneficially owned approximately 59% of Cablevision's outstanding Class B common stock, approximately 2% of Cablevision's outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 42% of the total voting power of all the outstanding Cablevision common stock. The members of the Dolan family holding Class B common stock have executed a stockholders’ agreement pursuant to which, among other things, the voting power of the Class B stockholders will be cast as a block with respect to all matters to be voted on by the Class B stockholders. The Dolan family has historically been able to prevent a change in control of Cablevision and no person interested in acquiring Cablevision can do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family. In connection with the Merger, holders of Cablevision common stock representing a majority of all votes entitled to be cast in the matter executed and delivered to Cablevision and Altice the Written Consent. As a result, the stockholder approval required to consummate the Merger has been obtained and no further action by Cablevision’s stockholders or the Dolan family in connection with the Merger is required. If the Merger Agreement is terminated or the Merger otherwise is not consummated for any reason, the Dolan family will again have the ability to prevent a change in control of Cablevision and no person interested in acquiring Cablevision will be able to so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan family.As a result of the Dolan family's ownership of all of the Class B common stock, the Dolan family has the power to elect all the directors of Cablevision subject to election by holders of Class B common stock. Those directors constitute a majority of Cablevision's Board of Directors. In addition, Dolan family members may control stockholder decisions on matters in which holders of all classes of Cablevision common stock vote together as a single class. These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of Cablevision's certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2⁄3% of the outstanding 26shares of the Class B common stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B common stock. Furthermore, the Dolan family members also have the power to prevent any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of Cablevision's certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B common stock.One purpose of the stockholders’ agreement referred to above is to consolidate Dolan family control of Cablevision. The Dolan family requested Cablevision's Board of Directors to exercise Cablevision's right, as a "controlled company", to opt-out of the New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board and to have an independent corporate governance and nominating committee. Cablevision's Board of Directors and the directors elected by holders of Class A common stock each approved this request on March 8, 2004. The members of the Dolan family, in their capacity as Class B common stockholders, will receive the same per Share Merger consideration of $34.90 per Share as the holders of the Class A common stock are entitled to receive in the Merger. Upon consummation of the Merger, the Dolan family will no longer hold any Cablevision common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.