ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We caution investors that any forward-looking statements presented in this Annual Report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time are based on management's beliefs and assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. When used, the words "anticipate", "believe", "expert", "intend", "may", "plan", "estimate", "project", "should", "will be" and similar expressions which do not relate solely to historical matters are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions and are not guarantees of future performance, which may be affect by known and unknown risks, trends, uncertainties and factors that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the risks discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks discussed in "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Should one or more these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to update forward-looking statements. Accordingly, past results and trends should not be used by investors to anticipate future results or trends. Some of the factors that might cause these differences include those set forth below. You should carefully review all of these factors, and you should be aware that there may be other factors that could cause these differences. These forward-looking statements were based on information, plans and estimates at the date of this Form 10-K, and we do not promise to update any forward-looking statements to reflect changes in underlying assumptions or factors, new information, future events or other changes. 2 WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE AN OPERATING BUSINESS, BUT ALSO DO NOT INTEND TO PURSUE A COURSE OF COMPLETE LIQUIDATION AND DISSOLUTION, AND ACCORDINGLY, THE VALUE OF YOUR SHARES MAY DECREASE We currently do not have any operating business; we are considering various options for the use of our remaining assets, but have yet to approve any definitive plans. In the meantime, we will continue to incur operating expenses while we consider alternative operating plans. These plans may include business combinations with or investments in other operating companies, or entering into a completely new line of business. We have not yet identified any such opportunities, and thus, you will not be able to evaluate the impact of such a business strategy on the value of your stock. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any appropriate business opportunities. Even if we are able to identify business opportunities that our Board deems appropriate, we cannot assure you that such a strategy will provide you with a positive return on your investment, and it may in fact result in a substantial decrease in the value of your stock. These factors will substantially increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our shares. Furthermore, we currently do not intend to pursue a course of complete liquidation and dissolution. As a result, you should not expect any further cash distributions. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY OR FULLY CAPITALIZE ON ANY APPROPRIATE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES We are considering various options for the use of our remaining assets, which may include business combinations, or a merger with, or investments in other operating companies, or entering into a completely new line of business. Nevertheless, we have not yet identified any appropriate business opportunities, and, due to a variety of factors outside of our control, we may not be able to identify or fully capitalize on any such opportunities. These factors include: (1) competition from other potential acquirers and partners of and investors in potential acquisitions, many of whom may have greater financial resources than we do; (2) in specific cases, failure to agree on the terms of a potential acquisition, such as the amount or price of our acquired interest, or incompatibility between us and management of the company we wish to acquire; and (3) the possibility that we may lack sufficient capital and/or expertise to develop promising opportunities. Even if we are able to identify business opportunities that our Board deems appropriate, we cannot assure you that such a strategy will provide you with a positive return on your investment, and may in fact result in a substantial decrease in the value of your stock. In addition, if we enter into a combination with a business that has operating income, we cannot assure you that we will be able to utilize all or even a portion of our existing net operating loss carryover for federal or state tax purposes following such a business combination. If we are unable to make use of our existing net operating loss carryover, the tax advantages of such a combination may be limited, which could negatively impact the price of our stock and the value of your investment. These factors will substantially increase the uncertainty, and thus the risk, of investing in our shares. STOCKHOLDERS MAY BE LIABLE TO OUR CREDITORS FOR UP TO AMOUNTS RECEIVED FROM US IF OUR RESERVES ARE INADEQUATE If we pursue a plan of complete liquidation and dissolution, a Certificate of Dissolution will be filed with the State of Delaware after such plan is approved by our stockholders. Pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, we will continue to exist for three years after the dissolution becomes effective or for such longer period as the Delaware Court of Chancery shall direct, for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits against us and enabling us gradually to close our business, to dispose of our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, in the event we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities during this three-year period, each stockholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors for such stockholder's pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve. The liability of any stockholder would be limited, however, to the amounts previously received by such stockholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts), including the cash distribution of $1.30 per share paid to stockholders on November 3, 2003. Accordingly, in such event a stockholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such stockholder. In such event, a stockholder could receive nothing from us under a plan of complete liquidation and dissolution. Moreover, in the event a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a stockholder incurring a net tax cost if the stockholder's repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. There can be no assurance that the contingency reserve maintained by us will be adequate to cover any expenses and liabilities. 3 OUR STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET, AND IS THEREFORE SIGNIFICANTLY LESS LIQUID THAN BEFORE Our stock has been delisted from trading on The Nasdaq National Market by reason of not maintaining listing requirements due to, among other things, significantly reduced market price of our common stock. As a result, our common stock currently trades over the counter on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board and the ability of our stockholders to obtain liquidity and fair market prices for our shares has been significantly impaired. WE WILL CONTINUE TO INCUR THE EXPENSE OF COMPLYING WITH PUBLIC COMPANY REPORTING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and other applicable requirements including those under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 even though compliance with such requirements is economically burdensome. In order to curtail expenses, if we elect to pursue a liquidation and dissolution strategy, after we file our Certificate of Dissolution, we will seek relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, which may or may not be granted. Until such relief is granted we will continue to make obligatory Exchange Act filings. We anticipate that even if such relief is granted in the future, we will continue to file current reports on Form 8-K to disclose material events relating to our liquidation and dissolution along with any other reports that the Securities and Exchange Commission may require. WE FACE AND MIGHT FACE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT MIGHT BE COSTLY TO RESOLVE From time to time, we have received letters from corporations and other entities suggesting that we review patents to which they claim rights or claiming that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. Such claims may result in our being involved in litigation. Although we sold our operating assets to eBay, we still have exposure for liabilities relating to our business operations prior to the sale. Further, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims in the future or that we will prevail against any such claims. We could incur substantial costs to defend any claims relating to proprietary rights, which would deplete our remaining cash assets. In addition, we are obligated under certain agreements to indemnify the other party for claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If we are required to indemnify parties under these agreements, our remaining assets could be substantially reduced. If someone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, we might seek settlement of such claim. We might not be able to agree to a settlement on reasonable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain a settlement on acceptable terms would decrease cash for other purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 