RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Mexico Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico We are a Mexican company with 44% of our consolidated assets located in Mexico and 33% of our consolidated net sales derived from our Mexican operations as of December 31, 2007. As a result, Mexican economic conditions could impact our results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced exchange rate instability and devaluation of the peso as well as high levels of inflation, domestic interest rates, unemployment, negative economic growth and reduced consumer purchasing power. These events resulted in limited liquidity for the Mexican government and local corporations. Civil and political unrest in Venezuela or elsewhere could produce similar results. See “—Developments in Other 9 Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of our Securities and Our Results of Operations.” The Mexican economy grew by 1.3% in 2003, by 4.4% in 2004, by 3.0% in 2005, by 4.8% in 2006, by 3.3% in 2007 and by an annualized rate of 2.6% in the first quarter of 2008. However, if the Mexican economy falls into recession, or if inflation and interest rates increase, consumer purchasing power may decrease and, as a result, demand for our product may decrease. In addition, a recession could affect our operations to the extent we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Government Policies in Mexico The Mexican government has exerted, and continues to exert, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities. Mexican presidential and congressional elections took place on July 2, 2006. Felipe Calderón Hinojosa was elected president for the 2006-2012 term. He is the second presidential candidate to be elected from the Partido Acción Nacional, which won for the first time in 2000. No political party in Mexico succeeded in securing a majority in the Congress or Senate. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the potential lack of alignment between the legislature and the president and any changes that result from the presidential and congressional elections could result in instability or deadlock, and prevent the timely implementation of political and economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business. Governmental policies have negatively affected our sales of corn flour in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Until 2007 we depended on corn import permits to ensure an adequate supply of corn in low-corn producing regions of Mexico. Commencing on January 1, 2008 pursuant to the NAFTA agreement, the import of grains, including corn, no longer requires import permits. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that the Mexican government will continue to comply with the terms of the NAFTA agreement, nor take actions that could adversely affect us. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” The Mexican government supports the commercialization of corn for Mexican corn growers through the Agricultural Incentives and Services Agency (Apoyos y Servicios a la Comercialización Agropecuaria, or ASERCA). To the extent that this or other similar programs are cancelled by the Mexican government, we may be required to incur additional costs in purchasing corn for our operations, and therefore we may need to increase the prices of our products to reflect such additional costs. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Since the end of 2006 and continuing through 2007 and 2008, the price of corn set by the Chicago Board of Trade and the average price of Mexican corn increased dramatically due to a number of factors, including the increased use of corn in the manufacture of ethanol, a substitute for gasoline, as well as other bio-fuels. Consequently, the price of corn flour and corn tortillas, the main food staple in Mexico, increased due to such increases in the international and domestic prices of corn. In order to stabilize the price of tortillas and provide Mexican families with a consistent supply of corn, corn flour and tortillas at a reasonable price, the Mexican government promoted two agreements among the various parties involved in the corn-corn flour-tortilla production chain. The first agreement was effective from January 15, 2007 through April 30, 2007. On April 25, 2007, the Mexican government announced a second agreement that extended the provisions of the first agreement through August 15, 2007. As a result, our corn flour prices did not reflect the increase in the cost of corn, which resulted in a significant deterioration in the financial performance of GIMSA, our subsidiary engaged in corn-flour production in Mexico, during the first quarter of 2007. The term of the second agreement was extended subsequently through December 31, 2007. Although the second agreement expired at the end of 2007, as of June 13, 2008, the parties to that agreement have voluntarily continued to operate under its terms. In addition, the Mexican government has recently announced a new policy aimed at aiding the domestic economy in facing the worldwide increase in food prices. Under this new policy, the Mexican government will (i) facilitate the supply in Mexico of, and access of Mexican consumers to, food at the best prices in the international market, (ii) promote the production of food products and increase the productivity of Mexican farms, and (iii) protect the income and strengthen the financial condition of poor families in Mexico. While the Mexican 10 government has not directly fixed or capped corn flour or tortilla prices, it has strongly encouraged Mexican producers and retailers to voluntarily do so. There can be no assurance that there will not be another extension of the aforementioned agreements, that we will not continue to further comply with their terms after expiration, that any of the parties to these agreements will continue to sell corn flour or tortillas at the prices provided in these agreements, that the Mexican government will not reestablish taxes on the import of corn and wheat, or that the Mexican government will not institute price controls or other actions on the products we sell, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Mexican Operations—GIMSA—Corn Flour Operation.” The level of environmental regulations and enforcement in Mexico has increased in recent years. In the past, the Comisión Nacional del Agua, or National Water Commission or CNA, has brought enforcement proceedings against us for fees arising from alleged water discharges from five of our facilities in Mexico. As of December 5, 2007, all of the proceedings brought against us by the CNA have been resolved in our favor. We cannot assure you that further actions of this type will not be brought against us. We expect the trend toward greater environmental regulation and enforcement to continue and to be accelerated as a result of international agreements between Mexico and the United States. The promulgation of new environmental regulations or higher levels of enforcement may adversely affect us. See “Item 8. Financial Information¾Legal Proceedings” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Devaluations of the Mexican Peso Affect our Financial Performance As of December 31, 2007, 93% of our debt obligations were denominated in U.S. dollars. We generate approximately 49% of our revenues in U.S. dollars, which in 2007 represented 222% of our then outstanding debt obligations. While the dollar revenues we earn may act as a natural hedge for part of our dollar-denominated debt obligations, we have not entered into derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk with respect to the outstanding principal amount of these obligations. However, because we have significant international operations, we remain exposed to foreign exchange risks that could affect our ability to meet our obligations and result in foreign exchange losses on our dollar-denominated obligations. We posted net foreign exchange losses of Ps.56 million in 2005, Ps.19 million in 2006, and gain of Ps.72 million in 2007. Any significant decrease in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to meet our dollar-denominated debt obligations. High Levels of Inflation and High Interest Rates in Mexico Could Adversely Affect the Business Climate in Mexico and our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, was 3.33% for 2005, 4.05% for 2006 and 3.76 for 2007. From January through May 2008, the inflation rate was 1.61%. On June 13, 2008, the 28-day CETES rate was 7.43%. While the substantial part of our debt is dollar-denominated at this time, high interest rates in Mexico may adversely affect the business climate in Mexico generally and our financing costs in the future and thus our financial condition and results of operations. Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of Our Securities and Our Results of Operations The Mexican economy may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Accordingly, the slowing economy in the United States, and the uncertainty of the impact it could have on the general economic conditions in Mexico and the United States could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. See—“Risks Relating to the United States—Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance” In addition, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other emerging market countries adversely affected the Mexican economy. 11 We cannot assure you that the events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You May Be Unable to Enforce Judgments Against Us in Mexican Courts We are a Mexican publicly held corporation (Sociedad Anónima Bursátil de Capital Variable). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of Mexico, and a significant portion of the assets of our directors and executive officers, and a significant portion of our assets, are located in Mexico. You may experience difficulty in effecting service of process upon our company or our directors and executive officers in the United States, or, more generally, outside of Mexico and in enforcing civil judgments of non-Mexican courts in Mexico, including judgments predicated on civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws, against us, or our directors and executive officers. We have been advised by our General Counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Mexican courts of liabilities predicated solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Differences Between Mexican FRS and U.S. GAAP May Have an Impact on the Presentation of Our Financial Information Our annual audited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Mexican FRS, which differ in some significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Financial results reported using Mexican FRS may differ substantially from those results that would have been obtained using U.S. GAAP. We are required, however, to file an annual report on Form 20-F containing financial statements reconciled to U.S. GAAP, although this filing only contains year-end financial statements reconciled to U.S. GAAP for our three most recent fiscal years. See Note 21 to our audited consolidated financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Company Fluctuations in the Cost and Availability of Corn, Wheat and Wheat Flour May Affect Our Financial Performance Our financial performance may be affected by the price and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour as each raw material represented 33%, 12% and 7%, respectively, of our cost of sales in 2007. Mexican and world markets have experienced periods of either over-supply or shortage of corn and wheat, some of which have caused adverse effects on our results of operations. Recently, there has been substantial volatility and increases in the price of corn, partly due to the demand for corn-based ethanol in the U.S., which has increased our cost of corn and negatively affected our financial condition and results of operation. We believe that the demand for corn will increase over the long term in connection with the manufacture of corn-based ethanol. Also, there have been dramatic increases in the price of wheat driven by negative weather conditions in certain regions of the world and increased demand worldwide, especially from emerging countries. To manage these price risks, we regularly monitor our risk tolerance and evaluate the possibility of using derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. We currently hedge against fluctuations in the costs of corn and wheat using futures and options contracts, but remain exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to the financial instruments. In addition, if corn or wheat prices decrease below the levels specified in our various hedging agreements, we would lose the value of a decline in these prices. Additionally, because of this volatility and price variations, we may not always be able to pass along our increased costs to our customers in the form of price increases. We cannot always predict whether or when shortages or over-supply of corn and wheat will occur. In addition, as described above, future Mexican or other countries’ governmental actions could affect the price and availability of corn and wheat. Any adverse developments in domestic and international corn and wheat markets could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Increases in the Cost of Energy Could Affect Our Profitability We use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our corn and wheat flour mills and processing ovens for the manufacture of tortillas and related products at our major domestic and international facilities. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the 12 distribution of our products. The cost of energy sources may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances. An increase in the price of fuel and other energy sources would increase our operating costs and, therefore, could affect our profitability. The Presence of Genetically Modified Corn in Our Products, Which is Not Approved for Human Consumption, May Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations As we do not grow our own corn, we are required to buy it from various producers in the United States, Mexico and elsewhere. Although we only buy corn from farmers and grain elevators who agree to supply us with approved varieties of corn and we have developed a protocol in all our operations with the exception of Venezuela to test and monitor our corn for certain strains of bacteria and chemicals that have not been approved for human consumption, we may unwittingly buy genetically modified corn that is not approved for human consumption, and use such raw materials in the manufacture of our products. This may result in costly recalls and subject us to lawsuits which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. In the past, various claims have been alleged, mostly in the United States and the European Union, that genetically modified foods are unsafe for human consumption, pose risks of damage to the environment and create legal, social and ethical dilemmas. Some countries, particularly in the European Union, as well as Australia and some countries in Asia, have instituted a partial limitation on the import of grain produced from genetically modified seeds. Some countries have imposed labeling requirements and traceability obligations on genetically modified agricultural and food products, which may affect the acceptance of these products. To the extent that we may unknowingly buy or be perceived to be a seller of genetically modified corn not approved for human consumption, this may have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Downgrades of Our Debt May Increase Our Financing Costs or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us or Our Stock Price Our long-term senior unsecured perpetual bond is rated “BBB-” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“Standard & Poor’s”), and “BBB-” by Fitch Ratings. On April 12, 2007, Standard & Poor’s revised its outlook on us from neutral to negative. On February 1, 2008, Standard & Poor’s placed our senior notes on Credit Watch with negative implication. On March 12, 2008, Standard & Poor’s removed our senior notes from Credit Watch with negative implication after our May 2008 rights offering improved our debt ratios. We continue to have a BBB- rating with negative outlook. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-term debt ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase the cost of and/or limit the availability of unsecured financing, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital when necessary. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Regulatory Developments May Adversely Affect Our Business We are subject to regulation in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are health, environmental, labor, taxation and antitrust. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Further changes in current regulations may result in an increase in compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Economic and Legal Risks Associated with a Global Business May Affect Our International Operations We conduct our business in many countries and anticipate that revenues from our international operations will account for a significant portion of our future revenues. There are risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: · general political and economic instability in international markets; 13 · limitations in the repatriation of our assets, including cash; · expropriation of our international assets; · varying prices and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour and the cost and practicality of hedging such fluctuations under current market conditions; · different liability standards and legal systems; · recent developments in the international credit markets, which could affect capital availability or cost, and could restrict our ability to obtain financing or refinance our existing indebtedness at favorable terms, if at all; and · intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our international rights to the same extent as the laws of Mexico. In addition, we have recently expanded our operations to China, Malaysia, Australia and England. Our presence in these and other markets could present us with new and unanticipated operational challenges. For example, we may encounter labor restrictions or shortages and currency conversion obstacles, or be required to comply with stringent local governmental and environmental regulations. Any of these factors could increase our operating expenses and decrease our profitability. Our Business May Be Adversely Impacted by Risks Related to Our Currency Derivatives Trading Activities From time to time, we enter into currency derivative transactions that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions. We are exposed to potential changes in the value of our derivative instruments primarily caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations may result from changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, and acts of war or terrorism. We account for these derivative transactions using the mark-to-market accounting method. The mark-to-market value of these derivatives instruments may increase or decrease prior to the settlement date of the instruments. We may incur unrealized losses as a result of the factors described above. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Risks Relating to Venezuela Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk, Which May in the Future Have an Adverse Impact on Our Operations and Financial Performance Our operations in Venezuela accounted for approximately 11% of our net sales in 2007. In recent years, political and social instability has prevailed in Venezuela. This unrest presents a risk to our business which cannot be controlled or accurately measured or estimated. For instance, as a result of the nation-wide general strike that took place from early December 2002 to February 2003, and in an effort to shore up the economy and control inflation, Venezuelan authorities imposed foreign exchange and price controls in early 2003. These price controls apply to products such as corn flour and wheat flour, which limit our ability to increase our prices in order to compensate for higher costs in raw materials. However, in February 2008, the Venezuelan government liberalized price controls on retail wheat flour. We cannot predict whether the Venezuelan government will reinstate price controls on wheat flour in the future. Additionally, the foreign exchange controls imposed by the Venezuelan government limit our ability to convert bolívares (the Venezuelan currency) into other currencies and transfer funds out of Venezuela. In February 2003, the Venezuelan government established a single fixed exchange rate for the bolívar of 1,600.00 bolívares per U.S.$1.00, which has been increased on several occasions to the current fixed exchange rate of 2,150.00 bolívares per U.S.$1.00 in effect since March 2005. Hugo Chávez, the current president of Venezuela was reelected to a second term in December 2006 and it is expected that political and social instability will continue to prevail during his six year term. Recently, the 14 Government of Venezuela announced the nationalization of foreign-owned companies in key industries such as steel, telecommunications and cement. We cannot assure you that the government of Venezuela will not continue to nationalize other foreign-owned companies. The Venezuelan government’s continued nationalization of foreign owned companies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected since, among other reasons: (i) a portion of our sales are denominated in bolívares; (ii) Gruma Venezuela produces products that are subject to price controls; (iii) part of our sales depend on centralized government procurement policies for its social welfare programs; (iv) we may have difficulties repatriating dividends from Gruma Venezuela, as well as importing some of its requirements for raw materials as a result of the exchange controls, and; (v) we may face increasing costs in some of our raw materials due to the implementation of import tariffs. Risks Relating to the United States Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance Net sales in the U.S. constituted approximately 45% of our total sales in 2007. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as a possible recession or economic slowdown in the United States could negatively affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to forego purchases of our products or, if available, shift to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our products in the United States or in other major markets could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our financial performance. Additionally, as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger, they could demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Also, our dependence on sales to certain retail customers could increase. There is a risk that we will not be able to maintain our U.S. profit margin in this environment. Demand for our products in Mexico, also may be disproportionately affected by the performance of the United States economy. Risks Related to Our Controlling Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Vote at our Shareholders’ Meetings Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs. There can be no assurance that holders of our shares through ADSs will receive notices of shareholder meetings from our ADS depositary with sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to our ADS depositary in a timely manner. Under certain circumstances, a person designated by us may receive a proxy to vote the shares underlying the ADSs at our discretion at a shareholder meeting. Holders of ADSs Are Not Entitled to Attend Shareholder Meetings, and They May Only Vote Through the Depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In addition, such voting instructions may be limited to matters enumerated in the agenda contained in the notice to shareholders and with respect to which information is available prior to the shareholders’ meeting. 15 Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Participate in Any Future Preemptive Rights Offering and as a Result May Be Subject to a Dilution of Equity Interest Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, other than in connection with a public offering of newly issued shares or treasury stock, we must generally grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We are under no obligation to, and there can be no assurance that we will, file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. In addition, under current Mexican law, sales by the ADS depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to the holders of our shares through ADSs is not possible. As a result, the equity interest of holders of our shares through ADSs would be diluted proportionately and such holders may not receive any economic compensation. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Preemptive Rights.” The Protections Afforded to Minority Shareholders in Mexico Are Different From Those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors, executive officers and controlling shareholders has been recently developed, with no legal precedent to predict the outcome of any such action. Additionally, class actions are not available under Mexican law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder derivative lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, our executive officers or our controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. We Have Significant Transactions With Affiliates That Could Create Potential Conflicts of Interest As of December 31, 2007, we held approximately 8.62 % of the capital stock of Grupo Financiero Banorte, S.A.B. de C.V. or GFNorte, a Mexican financial institution. In the normal course of business, we may obtain financing from GFNorte’s subsidiaries at market rates and terms. For the past five and a half years, the highest outstanding loan amount was Ps. 162 million (in nominal terms) with an interest rate of 8.9% in December 2003. We purchase some of our inventory ingredients from our shareholder and associate Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, or Archer-Daniels-Midland. During 2005, 2006 and 2007, we purchased U.S.$105 million, U.S.$115 million and U.S.$133 million of inventory ingredients, respectively, from Archer-Daniels-Midland. Transactions with affiliates may create the potential for conflicts of interest. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Affect the Value of Our Shares Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Peso and the U.S. Dollar will affect the U.S. Dollar value of an investment in our shares and of dividend and other distribution payments on those shares. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rate Information.” Our Bylaws Restrict the Ability of Non-Mexican Shareholders to Invoke the Protection of Their Governments With Respect to Their Rights as Shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexican in respect to their ownership interests in us, and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in any circumstances, under penalty to forfeit, in favor of the Mexican government, any participation or interest held in us. 16 Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by requesting the initiation of a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to its shareholder’s rights. However, this provision shall not deem non-Mexican shareholders to have waived any other rights they may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to their investment in us. Our Controlling Shareholder Exerts Substantial Control Over Our Company As of April 30, 2008, Roberto González Barrera and his family controlled approximately 50.9% of our outstanding shares. Following our equity rights offering in Mexico, which we completed on May 20 2008, Mr. González Barrera and his family increased their ownership in our company. As of June 13, 2008, Roberto González Barrera and his family controlled approximately 55.9% of our outstanding shares, see “Item 10. Change in Capital Stock.” Consequently, Mr. González Barrera and his family have the power to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our stockholders, including the declaration of dividends. The interests of Mr. González Barrera and his family may differ from those of our other shareholders. Mr. González Barrera and his family’s holdings are described under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders.” Mr. González Barrera has pledged and may be required to further pledge part of his shares in our company to secure some of his borrowings. If there is a default and the lenders enforce their rights against any or all of these shares, Mr. González Barrera and his family could lose control over us and a change of control could result. In addition, this could trigger a default in one of our credit agreements and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For more information about this pledge, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Archer-Daniels-Midland, Our Strategic Partner, Has Influence Over Some Corporate Decisions; Our Relationship With Archer-Daniels-Midland Could Become Adverse and Hurt Our Performance Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 23.2% of our outstanding shares. However, a portion of such interest is held through a Mexican corporation jointly owned with Mr. González Barrera, who has the sole authority to determine how those shares are voted. Thus, Archer-Daniels-Midland only has the right to vote 18.9% of our outstanding shares. In addition, Archer-Daniels-Midland has the right to nominate two of the 15 members of our board of directors and their corresponding alternates. As a result, Archer-Daniels-Midland may influence the outcome of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders or our board of directors. Mr. González Barrera and Archer-Daniels-Midland have also granted each other rights of first refusal in respect of their shares in our company, subject to specified conditions. Additionally, subject to certain requirements under the Ley del Mercado de Valores, or Mexican Securities Law, Archer-Daniels-Midland may also: (i) request the Chairman of the board or the Chairman of the audit and corporate governance committees to convene a general shareholders’ meeting; (ii) initiate civil lawsuits against members of the board of directors, members of the audit and corporate governance committees, and the chief executive officer for breach of duty; (iii) judicially oppose resolutions adopted at shareholder meetings; and (iv) request the deferral of any vote regarding an issue about which it does not believe it has been sufficiently informed. Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, a 40% interest in our subsidiary, Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V., or Molinera de México, and a 20% interest in our subsidiary, Azteca Milling, L.P., or Azteca Milling. Additionally, Archer-Daniels-Midland owns a 3% indirect interest in Molinos Nacionales, C.A., or MONACA and a 3% indirect interest in Derivados de Maíz Seleccionado, C.A. or DEMASECA. For more information, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview— Gruma Venezuela.” These subsidiaries account for 11% of our revenue. Although we own a majority ownership interest in these subsidiaries, in each of Azteca Milling and Molinera de México we are required to obtain the consent and cooperation of Archer-Daniels-Midland with respect to certain matters in order to increase our capital expenditures and to implement and expand upon our business strategies. We cannot assure you that our relationships with Archer-Daniels-Midland will be harmonious and successful. Disagreements with Archer-Daniels-Midland could affect the execution of our strategy and, as a result, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. 17 Our Antitakeover Protections May Deter Potential Acquirors Certain provisions of our bylaws could make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions in our bylaws may discourage certain types of transactions involving the acquisition of our securities. These provisions could discourage transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Holders of our securities who acquire shares in violation of these provisions will not be able to vote, or receive dividends, distributions or other rights in respect of, these securities and would be obligated to pay us a penalty. For a description of these provisions, see “Additional Information—Bylaws—Antitakeover Protections.” We Are a Holding Company and Depend Upon Dividends and Other Funds From Subsidiaries to Service Our Debt We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends primarily upon our receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. Under Mexican law, companies may only pay dividends: · from earnings included in year-end financial statements that are approved by shareholders at a duly convened meeting; · after any existing losses applicable to prior years have been made up or absorbed into capital; · after at least 5% of net profits for the relevant fiscal year have been allocated to a legal reserve until the amount of the reserve equals 20% of a company’s paid-in capital stock; and · after shareholders have approved the payment of the relevant dividends at a duly convened meeting. In addition, Gruma Corporation is subject to covenants in some of its debt and lease agreements which partially restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid, limit advances or loans to us, and require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and balances. For additional information concerning these restrictions on inter-company transfers, see “Item 3. Key Information—Dividends” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We own approximately 83% of the outstanding shares of Grupo Industrial Maseca, S.A.B. de C.V., or GIMSA, 73% of MONACA, 57% of DEMASECA, 80% of Azteca Milling, L.P. (through Gruma Corporation), 60% of Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V. and, as of December 31, 2007, 8.62% of GFNorte. Upon completion of a series of transactions which commenced in April 2006 and are expected to be completed by December 2008, we will own a 57% interest in MONACA. For more information regarding these transactions, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Gruma Venezuela.” Accordingly, we are entitled to receive only our pro rata share of any of these subsidiaries’ dividends. Our ability to repatriate dividends from Gruma Venezuela may be adversely affected by exchange controls and other recent events. See “Item 3. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Venezuela—Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk.” 18 