Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS THAT COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results, financial condition, the value of our business, and the price of our common stock and also could cause actual events to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Investors are encouraged to carefully consider the risks described below before making decisions related to buying, holding or selling our common stock. GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND OPERATING RESULTS The following risks could negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, the value of our business and the price of our common stock. These risks also apply to and may adversely affect our specific business programs, products and opportunities, as more specifically described below. We have incurred significant continuing losses since inception, and we may never achieve profitability. We incurred losses of $13,466,000, $13,269,000 and $14,399,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $138,483,000 and had not yet recorded significant revenues from commercial sales apart from revenues contributed by SCR-Tech, a business we acquired in 2004. Unless we significantly curtail or successfully secure third-party funding for our diesel emissions solutions development activities, we expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future and these losses are likely to be significant. We exited our mobile diesel retrofit program in September 2005 and we recently decided to no longer pursue any further development or commercialization activities associated with our Xonon Cool Combustion product for small gas turbines after a decade of development work and expense in this business. We incurred significant losses in both businesses. There can be no assurance that our remaining active development activities will be successful or that our SCR Catalyst and Management Services business will be profitable. Further, there can be no assurance that Catalytica Energy will ever reach or sustain profitability. We may need significant additional capital to operate our business or achieve profitability, and we may be unable to raise additional capital. In general, our current and near-term capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including but not limited to our product development and commercialization activities, the timing and level of third- 20 party research and development funding, market acceptance of our products and our rate of sales growth. We face substantial uncertainties with respect to our business operations and we may not be able to achieve positive cash flow from our operations. Our current operating plans through fiscal 2006 are continually under review and may or may not include further developing our diesel emissions reduction solutions and expanding our SCR Catalyst and Management Services business. The amount of capital required to complete our development programs is highly uncertain and depends on numerous factors, including technical issues associated with our ongoing development of Catalyst-Based Technology Solutions, the nature of partner participation and the amount and timing of any capital or technical contributions from such partners, the ability of third party suppliers to develop certain components in a timely manner, market and industry demands and requirements, and the cost of required regulatory reviews and approvals. Further, our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses have been in excess of $6 million per year, and, although reduced as part of our 2005 restructuring activities, are expected to continue to be significant under our current business strategy. Thus, any delay in product development or commercial product launches will result in us continuing to incur significant SG&A expenses without corresponding revenues. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (collectively “Cash”) in the amount of $21.3 million as of December 31, 2005 will provide sufficient capital to fund operations as currently conducted until at least December 31, 2007. However, if our overall Cash usage in 2006 or 2007 exceeds our current expectations because of higher capital expenditures, increased costs of development or commercialization, lower than anticipated revenues from SCR-Tech, lower government and third-party funding, higher SG&A expenditures or for any other reason, we may be required to raise additional funds to continue our operations as presently planned, significantly curtail our business operations and/or change our strategic direction. In particular, we currently estimate that the total remaining development costs for continuing to pursue our diesel OEM NOx and PM solutions for new, over-the-road diesel engines will be in excess of $10 million, and potentially substantially in excess of such sum. Our belief that we have sufficient funds through December 31, 2007, is significantly dependent on these costs not materially exceeding $10 million during this period. In addition, we may enter into mergers, acquisitions or other strategic arrangements which could require the use of cash, reducing our available capital prior to December 31, 2007, or which could require additional equity or debt financing. Moreover, the integration and operation of any business acquired could require significant expenditures that could materially and adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. In this regard, our 2004 acquisition of SCR-Tech required significant cash outlays for acquisition-related payments and may potentially require future cash outlays to fund operations. Any additional funding requirements, whether for operations, acquisitions or otherwise, may be significant, may not be available when required or may be available only on terms unsatisfactory to us. Furthermore, if we issue equity securities, the ownership percentage of our then existing stockholders may be reduced, and the holders of new equity securities may have rights senior to those of our existing holders of common stock. If we issue debt securities, these securities would be senior in priority to any equity securities, including our common stock, and would subject us to the risks inherent in issuing debt, including ongoing payment and maturity obligations. Funding requirements satisfied through strategic relationships with industry participants could result in substantial dilution of our then existing equity holders and could require us to limit our potential return from our products by making significant business or financial concessions to such participants. Beyond December 31, 2007, our cash requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the market acceptance of our products, the ability of our diesel emissions reduction products to achieve market acceptance and commitments from significant industry participants, the timing and level of development funding from private and government sources, the ability of SCR-Tech to generate significant 21 cash flow, the rate of expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the rate of expansion of our manufacturing capacity, and the timing and extent of research and development projects. Risk of changes in government regulation. Our business is significantly dependent on the nature and level of government regulation of emissions. Without government regulation of coal-fired power generation, SCR catalyst would not be used by utilities, there would be no need for utilities to acquire, clean or regenerate SCR catalyst, and SCR-Tech would have no business purpose. Further, changes in or adverse interpretations of governmental accounting or rate-based emissions regulations also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Without government regulation of diesel emissions, there would be no demand for our potential diesel emissions reduction products. Further, the level of this regulation will determine the required level of emission solutions required, and the rate of increase, if any, in regulation, will determine the potential growth in our target markets. Additionally, without the continued support of federal government agencies, such as the EPA, for the technology approach we are pursuing to reduce NOx emissions from mobile diesel engine applications, competing technology approaches could gain momentum in the U.S. marketplace as the technology path that will be pursued for meeting the 2010 emissions mandate. Although government regulation of emissions has become increasingly stringent in recent years, the growing costs associated with such regulations may limit the level of increase and scope of emissions requirements, which could limit the potential growth of our target markets. Any easing of governmental emissions requirements or the growth rate of such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our acquisition of SCR-Tech and any significant transaction we may undertake could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We regularly evaluate the status of our research and development activities, product and service offerings and associated market opportunities, and consider sales or discontinuation of businesses or product or service offerings, as well as strategic activities or opportunities, including business acquisitions or other strategic transactions that could positively impact shareholder value. We have limited experience in these types of transactions. We acquired SCR-Tech in February 2004, and there can be no assurance this acquisition will prove to be successful or ultimately beneficial to us. See “Additional Risks Relating to SCR Catalyst and Management Services.” The SCR-Tech acquisition and any future transactions, including mergers, acquisitions or similar transactions, entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including but not limited to: · issues associated with integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with our existing business and products; · changes in control or management; · dilution of existing stockholders; · potential disruption of our ongoing business activities and distraction of our management; · difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired companies; · difficulties in coordinating and integrating overall business strategies, sales and marketing, and research and development efforts; · difficulties associated with the maintenance of corporate cultures, controls, procedures and policies; · risks associated with entering markets in which we lack prior experience; · the potential loss of key employees; and 22 · the potential for write-offs of goodwill and other acquired intangibles. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile, has significantly declined and may decline further. Our common stock could be de-listed by NASDAQ. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and has declined significantly since our stock began trading in December 2000. Factors that could cause fluctuation and further declines in our stock price may include, but are not limited to: · the nature, amounts and trends with respect to our net losses and cash consumption; · the amount of our capital resources and our potential need to seek additional funding; · announcements or cancellations of orders or research and development arrangements; · conditions or trends in our industry; · changes in the market valuations of other companies in our industry; · the effectiveness and commercial viability of products offered by us or our competitors; · the results of our research and development or test activities; · announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new products, significant acquisitions or mergers, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives; · changes in environmental regulations; and · additions or departures of key personnel. Many of these factors are beyond our control. These factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our operating performance. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. In addition, due to our stage of development, we cannot predict our future revenues or results of operations accurately. As a consequence, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our operating results include: · the status of development of our technology, products and manufacturing capabilities; · the cost of our raw materials and key components; · warranty and service costs for products in the field; · the introduction, timing and market acceptance of new products introduced by us or our competitors; · the development of our strategic relationships and distribution channels; · general economic conditions, which can affect our customers’ capital investments and the length of our sales cycle; 23 · the development and/or market acceptance of NOx adsorbers; and · Government regulations. Our stock has traded below $1 in the recent past. If the price of our common stock declines and remains below $1 for 30 consecutive trading days, our common stock will be subject to de-listing by NASDAQ. In such event, if we are unable to regain compliance within a period of time specified by NASDAQ, our common stock could be moved to the OTC Bulletin Board, and the liquidity and value of our common stock likely would be negatively impacted. We may have difficulty managing our current operations in light of recent management changes. Currently our management team is responsible for the operations of our recently acquired SCR-Tech business, our diesel programs, exploring and evaluating potential acquisitions or divestitures and other strategic opportunities and other programs. In light of employee headcount reductions over the past few years, including management level employees, and the increasing number of Federal and NASDAQ securities regulatory requirements, substantial additional burdens have been placed on our management. Our former President and CEO Mike Murry resigned from his position with the Company effective June 30, 2005. Subsequent to Mr. Murry’s departure, Robert Zack, our CFO, was appointed President and CEO. Although our Board of Directors has formed a special committee to assist Mr. Zack with his expanded duties, this departure has further strained our management resources and required management and certain employees to assume additional duties. Further, if Mr. Zack were to depart, we would be required to find both a CEO and CFO to assume his duties. It may prove difficult for current management to successfully operate these differing areas and meet the demands and requirements of our diverse business activities. In addition, our former Senior Vice President of Business Development, Dominic Geraghty, ceased employment with us in September 2005. Management changes at SCR-Tech in early 2005 also have required increased management attention to SCR-Tech’s business. No assurance can be given that management resources will be sufficient to address current and future business activities or that we will not be required to incur substantial additional expenses to add to our management capabilities. We have historically focused on research and development activities and have limited experience in marketing, selling and servicing our products. We have primarily focused on research and development activities to date. To date, we only have limited experience marketing, selling and servicing our Xonon Cool Combustion systems, and we have recently ceased development and commercialization activities associated with this system and experienced significant financial losses. Further, we have no experience marketing, selling or servicing our diesel emissions reduction systems. We will have to expand our marketing and sales organization, as well as our maintenance and support capability as our products become commercially available. We may not be successful in our efforts to market and service our products, which could compromise our ability to increase our revenues. If we are unable to attract or retain key personnel, our ability to adapt our technology to diesel engines or other products, to continue to develop and commercialize our technology, to effectively market our products and to manage our business could be harmed. Our business requires a highly skilled management team and specialized workforce, including scientists, engineers, researchers, and manufacturing and marketing professionals who have developed essential proprietary skills. Our future success will therefore depend on attracting and retaining qualified management and technical personnel. We do not know whether we will be successful in hiring or retaining these qualified personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel on a timely basis, or the departure of key employees, could harm our existing business as well as our expansion and commercialization plans. We 24 have experienced the departure of key personnel over the past few years, including the departure of our former President and CEO Mike Murry in June 2005. In addition, our continuing losses make it more difficult to attract and retain key personnel. Certain of our processing and manufacturing equipment is unique to our business and would be difficult and expensive to repair or replace. Certain of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our products has been developed and made specifically for us and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, certain of our manufacturing equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors. Consequently, any damage to or breakdown of our manufacturing equipment at a time we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products may have a material adverse impact on our business. Significant price increases in key materials may reduce our gross margins and profitability of our NOx reduction products. The prices of rhodium, palladium, platinum, molybdenum and vanadium, all of which are used in various components or our business, can be volatile. If the long-term costs of these materials were to increase significantly, we would attempt to reduce material usage or find substitute materials. If these efforts were not successful or if these cost increases could not be reflected in our price to customers, then our gross margins and profitability would be reduced. We are subject to significant potential environmental and product liability exposure. Since our business relates to NOx and related emissions controls, solutions and services, we are subject to significant potential environmental and product liability risks. These include risks relating to the chemicals and other materials used to manufacture our products and provide our services; risks relating to hazardous waste and hazardous waste disposal; potential environmental damage caused in the manufacture, sale, distribution or operation of our products and services relating thereto; employee and third party injuries from the manufacture, sale, distribution or operation of our products and services relating thereto, including claims by our customers and their end users, including in certain cases, consumers; the inability of our products to meet environmental or other standards imposed by federal, state or local law or by our customers; and other claims relating to our products and services. Because of our very limited experience and the limited distribution of our products and services, we do not have any experience with the nature or type of claims which may arise from our business. Only limited insurance is available for environmental and product liability claims, and any such claims could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. This could be the case even if we ultimately had no liability on any particular claim, since the costs of defending any environmental or product liability claim could be prohibitive. To date, the Company has not been identified as a potential responsible party to such environmental or product liability risks, nor have any amounts been recorded to accrue for these potential exposures. Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable. Our business operations are subject to potential environmental, product liability, employee and other risks. Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage. Further, no insurance is available to cover certain types of risks, such as acts of god, war, terrorism, major economic and business disruptions and similar events. In the event we were to suffer a significant environmental, product liability, employee or other claim in excess of our insurance or a loss or damages relating to an uninsurable risk, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, the cost of our insurance has increased substantially in 25 recent years and may prove to become prohibitively expensive, thus making it impractical to obtain insurance. This may result in the need to abandon certain business activities or subject ourselves to the risks of uninsured operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or our intellectual property protection efforts are unsuccessful, others may duplicate our technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, systems designs and manufacturing processes. In this regard, we recently entered into new emissions control solution markets with respect to diesel emissions technology and SCR Catalyst and Management Services in which we do not have as broad of intellectual property protection as we do in the NOx control solutions area for small gas turbines. Consequently, our ability to compete effectively in such new emission control solution markets may be adversely affected by our inability to exclude competitors based on our intellectual property position. The ability of others to use our intellectual property could allow them to duplicate the benefits of our products and reduce our competitive advantage. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will issue or, in the case of patents issued, that the claims allowed are or will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or processes. Further, a patent issued covering one use of our technology may not be broad enough to cover uses of that technology in other business areas. Even if all our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, they may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting patent and other intellectual property infringement suits and defending the validity of our patents and other intellectual property. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our property rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. These actions could place our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights at risk and could result in the loss of patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights protection for the products, systems and services on which our business strategy partly depends. We rely, in part, on contractual provisions to protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Our trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently developed by competitors. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products and services if these claims are successful. Our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are equivalent or superior to ours. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights in many technology-related industries and we believe our industry has a significant amount of patent activity. Third parties may claim, that the technology or intellectual property that we incorporate into or use to develop or manufacture our current and future products, systems or services infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to infringe, induce or contribute to the infringement of those intellectual property rights and require a license to use those rights. We may also be required to engage in costly efforts to design our products, systems and services around the intellectual property rights of others. The intellectual property rights of others may cover some of our technology, products, systems and services. In addition, the scope and validity of any particularly third party patent may be subject to significant uncertainty. Litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of 26 intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements or indemnify our customers. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any inability on our part to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. We may also be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development, manufacture and sale of our products, systems or services. We incur substantial costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, both the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have already increased our legal and financial compliance costs and the amount of time and effort we devote to compliance activities. We expect these rules and regulations to further increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make compliance and other activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. Further, due to increased regulations, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We have attempted to address some of these attraction and retention issues by offering contractual indemnification agreements to our directors and executive officers, but this may not be sufficient. We continue to regularly monitor and evaluate developments with respect to these new rules with our legal counsel, but we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Because a small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our common stock, they may exert significant influence over major corporate decisions, and our other stockholders may not be able to do so. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers, directors and greater than 5% stockholders controlled approximately 61% of our outstanding common stock. If these parties were to act together, they could significantly influence the election of directors and the approval of actions requiring the approval of a majority of our stockholders. The interests of our management or these investors may not always be aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Based on shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005, the funds managed by Morgan Stanley Capital Partners and their affiliates own approximately 19% of our outstanding common stock. The Morgan Stanley Capital Partners funds also have stockholder rights, including rights to appoint directors and registration rights. As a result, Morgan Stanley Capital Partners and its affiliates hold a substantial voting position in us and may be able to significantly influence our business. Provisions in our charter documents, our Shareholder Rights Plan and Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of our securities. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Furthermore, we have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan with anti-takeover provisions which are triggered if any stockholder acquires 20% or more (or 21.5% in the case of Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, L.P. and its affiliates) of our outstanding common stock, resulting in significant dilution of the shares owned by such stockholder unless such stockholder obtains consent of our Board of Directors to purchase shares in excess of the threshold. Thus, the plan could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change in control or change in our management and board of directors. 27 Liabilities we acquired as a result of our spin-off may have a negative effect on our financial results. We incurred additional liabilities as a result of our spin-off from Catalytica, Inc. For example, when the business of Catalytica Advanced Technologies, Inc. (“CAT”) was combined with ours, we became responsible for the liabilities of CAT. Additionally, we have obligations under the separation agreements we entered into with Catalytica, Inc., Synotex and DSM Catalytica Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the successor corporation to Catalytica, Inc. For example, we agreed to indemnify DSM for liabilities arising out of our business, the business of CAT and other liabilities of DSM not associated with the pharmaceuticals business it purchased from Catalytica, Inc., which could include, for example, potential environmental liabilities. We are also responsible for specified potential liabilities arising out of the distribution of our common stock by Catalytica, Inc. To date, no claims have been made against us pursuant to these indemnification provisions and, at December 31, 2005, we believe the likelihood of any material claim being made against us is remote. However, if any additional liabilities materialize, our financial results could be harmed. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO SCR CATALYST AND MANAGEMENT SERVICES In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere, any of which also could adversely impact our SCR-Tech subsidiary and its business, the following additional risks specifically relate to SCR-Tech and could negatively impact SCR-Tech and our entire company. SCR-Tech has not been profitable and there can be no assurance SCR-Tech will become profitable. SCR-Tech has not been profitable. SCR-Tech failed to generate significant new orders in the first half of 2005 for SCR catalyst cleaning and regeneration services, which accounted for approximately 90% of SCR-Tech’s revenues in 2004. Backlog as of December 31, 2005 for SCR Catalyst and Management Services was approximately $3,128,000 including $185,000 of deferred revenues. No assurance can be given that SCR-Tech will be able to generate significant SCR management services revenues or an increase in SCR catalyst cleaning and regeneration services revenues or that SCR-Tech will be profitable in 2006 or in any future period. We are dependent on management at SCR-Tech for success in its business. William J. McMahon was appointed president of SCR-Tech effective March 21, 2005, and is responsible for reinvigorating the business of SCR-Tech. Mr. McMahon has limited experience specifically associated with SCR Catalyst and Management Services; thus, no assurance can be given that Mr. McMahon will continue to be successful in reinvigorating the business of SCR-Tech. In June 2005, SCR-Tech appointed Robert Deneault as vice president of sales and marketing, and Dr. Howard Franklin as director of technology. Both Deneault and Franklin are seasoned industry veterans with more than 60 years of combined experience in the power generation industry. While both individuals have prior experience relating to SCR system operations, they both have limited experience specifically associated with SCR-Tech’s service offerings. The success of SCR-Tech’s business will be significantly dependent upon the management of SCR-Tech. There can be no assurance that the management of SCR-Tech will be able to successfully operate SCR-Tech’s business or that the loss of any of SCR-Tech’s key personnel will not have an adverse affect upon the business of SCR-Tech. We have limited experience with the operations of SCR-Tech. We completed the acquisition of SCR-Tech in February 2004. SCR-Tech was a privately-held company, which commenced commercial operations in the U.S. in March 2003. At the time we acquired SCR-Tech, we had no experience in the SCR-related business and we have just begun to integrate our management, technology and systems with SCR-Tech. In addition, SCR-Tech did not previously have 28 audited financial statements. Thus, there is a risk of unknown financial or other liabilities which could negatively impact SCR-Tech and us. SCR-Tech has very limited operating experience in North America. SCR-Tech may not be able to profitably operate its business. SCR-Tech commenced commercial operations in its U.S. regeneration facility in March 2003 and has completed only a limited number of SCR cleaning and regeneration projects. Thus SCR-Tech does not have a substantial operational history in this facility to determine whether it can successfully operate its business under differing environments and conditions or at any level of profitability. The size of the market for SCR-Tech’s business is uncertain. SCR-Tech offers SCR catalyst cleaning, rejuvenation and regeneration, as well as SCR system management and consulting services. The size and growth rate for this market will ultimately be determined by a number of factors, including environmental regulations, the growth in the use of SCR systems to reduce NOx and other pollutants, the length of operation of SCR systems without the need for cleaning, the differences, if any, in the accounting and rate-base effect of using regenerated SCR catalyst as compared to new SCR catalyst as adopted or approved by applicable federal and state regulatory authorities, rejuvenation or regeneration, the expansion of warranty coverage from SCR catalyst OEMs, the cost of new SCR catalyst, and other factors, most of which are beyond the control of SCR-Tech. There is limited historical evidence in North America as to the cycle of replacement, cleaning and regeneration of SCR catalyst so as to accurately estimate the potential growth of the business. In addition, the number of times a catalyst can be regenerated is unknown, which also may affect the demand for regeneration in lieu of purchasing new catalyst. Any delay in the development of the market could significantly and adversely affect the value of SCR-Tech and the nature of any return on our acquisition of SCR-Tech. SCR-Tech may be subject to vigorous competition with very large competitors that have substantially greater resources and operating histories. Although there does not appear to be a direct competitor in the business of SCR catalyst regeneration in North America, we are aware of at least one other company, Enerfab, Inc. (which uses a process developed by Envirgy/Integral), providing SCR catalyst management, rejuvenation and cleaning services. There also are a number of SCR catalyst manufacturers with substantial parent companies that may seek to maintain market share by significantly reducing or even eliminating all profit margins. These companies include Cormetech Inc. (owned by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Corning, Inc.), Argillon GmbH (formerly Siemens), BASF / CERAM, Haldor-Topsoe, Inc. and Hitachi America. Further, if the SCR catalyst regeneration market expands, competitors could emerge. If the intellectual property protection acquired by us becomes weakened, competition could more easily develop. SCR-Tech’s business is subject to potential seasonality. Because some utilities and independent power producers (“IPPs”) currently operate their SCR units only during the “ozone season” (May 1-September 30), SCR-Tech’s business may be more limited than if SCR units were required to operate on a continual basis. The NOx SIP Call was configured to impose a summer ozone season NOx limitation over 19 states and the District of Columbia. During this period, utilities and IPPs seek to operate their SCR catalyst at maximum capacity so as to reduce NOx emissions during this period. During non-ozone season periods, most operators currently have limited (if any) requirements to run their SCR systems. Unless and until such regulations are tightened, much of SCR-Tech’s business may be concentrated outside the ozone season each year. This will likely result in less business than if SCR units were required to be operated throughout the year and this also may result in quarters of relatively higher cash flow and earnings and quarters where cash flow and earnings may be 29 minimal. These potential fluctuations in revenues and cash flow during a year may be significant and could materially impact our quarterly earnings and cash flow. This may have a material adverse effect on the perception of our business and the market price for our common stock. SCR-Tech may be subject to warranty claims from its customers. SCR-Tech typically must provide warranties to its customers relating to the level of success of its catalyst cleaning and regeneration services. In the event SCR-Tech is unable to perform a complete regeneration of an SCR catalyst, SCR-Tech may be required to re-perform a regeneration or repay all or part of the fees earned for the regeneration efforts. SCR-Tech also may be required to provide warranties with respect to its other SCR catalyst services provided to its customers. Since SCR-Tech has only a limited operating history in North America, it is not possible to determine the amount or extent of any potential warranty claims that SCR-Tech may incur. There is a risk that any such claims could be substantial and could affect the profitability of SCR-Tech and the financial condition of our Company. SCR-Tech is dependent on third parties to perform certain testing required to confirm the success of its regeneration. In connection with the regeneration of SCR catalyst by SCR-Tech, SCR-Tech must have an independent company provide testing services to determine the level of success of regeneration. We are not aware of any company currently providing such services in the United States. Thus, SCR-Tech must ship samples to Europe for testing. Without such cost-effective testing, SCR-Tech cannot perform its regeneration services. SCR-Tech is still dependent on ENVICA. SCR-Tech has required assistance of an affiliate of one of the former owners of SCR-Tech, ENVICA Kat GmbH, to successfully complete certain contracts. In addition, SCR-Tech has been relying to a limited extent on the assistance of ENVICA on various technical and support matters relating to its business. There can be no assurance that SCR-Tech and its current employees will be ultimately able to successfully operate the business or expand the business without the continued assistance of ENVICA. Further, there can be no assurance that SCR-Tech will not incur significant unanticipated technical problems and costs which could adversely affect SCR-Tech’s business. SCR-Tech is highly dependent upon the strength of its intellectual property to protect its business. In addition to the intellectual property risks relating to ongoing dealings with ENVICA, there can be no assurance the intellectual property acquired by us as part of the acquisition of SCR-Tech will prove sufficient or enforceable or that our activities will not infringe the rights of competitors or other third parties. The infringement representation and indemnification from SCR-Tech’s sellers to us is short and of limited value. Further, much of the intellectual property from ENVICA is in the form of trade secrets, for which patent protection is not available or being sought. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration facilities and it is subject to risks inherent in leasing the site of its operations. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration site; instead it leases it from Clariant Corporation, the U.S. subsidiary of a Switzerland-based public company. Although we believe the lease terms are favorable, the dependence on Clariant and the site could subject SCR-Tech to increased risk in the event Clariant experiences financial setbacks or loses its right to operate the site upon which SCR-Tech leases property. This risk is heightened because of the fact the site is a Federal Superfund site (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), which increases the risks the site ultimately could be shut down or that Clariant will be financially unable to continue its ownership 30 of the site. It may be difficult to locate to another site on a cost-effective basis, and SCR-Tech’s business could be negatively impacted by any problems with continuing to conduct its operations at its current site. SCR-Tech may require unexpected capital expenditures to expand its production facilities. SCR-Tech does not own its regeneration site; instead it leases it from Clariant Corporation, the U.S. subsidiary of a Switzerland-based public company. We believe this site is sufficient to meet SCR-Tech’s anticipated production requirements for 2006 and 2007. However, orders for SCR regeneration services have increased significantly in recent months, and it is possible that SCR-Tech’s currently facilities may prove inadequate to meet unanticipated increased demand for regeneration services. Although we believe SCR-Tech’s current site allows for building additional regeneration facilities, including a doubling of current capacity, such construction could require significant capital expenditures, necessary permitting and time for construction. There can be no assurance that SCR-Tech could meet the demands of a rapid increase in orders in a timely manner. Any failure to timely fulfill such orders could have an adverse impact on SCR-Tech’s business. SCR-Tech could be subject to environmental risks as a result of the operation of its business and the location of its facilities. The operation of SCR-Tech’s business and the nature of its assets create various environmental risks. SCR-Tech leases its site for operations at a property listed on the National Priority List as a Federal Superfund site. Five CERCLA Areas (those areas of concern identified under the CERCLA program) are identified on the property, and while SCR-Tech does not lease any property identified as a CERCLA Area, one such Area has resulted in contamination of groundwater flowing underneath one of the buildings leased by SCR-Tech. Although SCR-Tech has indemnification from Clariant Corporation for any environmental liability arising prior to the operation of SCR-Tech’s business at the site, there can be no assurance that such indemnification will be sufficient or that SCR-Tech could be protected from an environmental claim from the nature of the site. In addition, the operation of SCR-Tech’s business involves removal of hazardous wastes from catalyst and the use of significant chemical materials. As a result, SCR-Tech could be subject to potential liability from such operations. To date, the Company has not been identified as a potential responsible party to such environmental risks, nor have any amounts been recorded to accrue for these potential exposures. Risks of Purchasing Used SCR Catalyst SCR-Tech’s primary business involves the cleaning and regenerating of customer-owned SCR catalyst. In certain instances, however, SCR-Tech may purchase used or “spent” catalyst from utilities for regeneration. This may occur, for example, when a utility must sell catalyst for accounting reasons or when a utility wishes to avoid the costs and potential hazardous waste issues associated with the disposal of used or “spent” catalyst. SCR-Tech may purchase SCR catalyst for a nominal sum and then regenerate such catalyst for immediate sale, or may purchase spent SCR catalyst on an opportunistic basis for future regeneration and sale. The purchase of spent SCR catalyst involves additional potential risks to SCR-Tech. First, spent SCR catalyst includes significant hazardous waste. Unlike the regeneration of customer-owned SCR catalyst, the purchase of spent SCR catalyst requires SCR-Tech to take ownership or “title” to the SCR catalyst, which may potentially increase SCR-Tech’s environmental risk exposure. Further, if SCR-Tech cannot find a customer to purchase the regenerated catalyst, then SCR-Tech will be required to either store the spent catalyst, with all of the risk inherent in holding catalyst which has not been regenerated and contains hazardous waste, or incur significant costs to dispose of the spent catalyst in a manner which complies with the strict requirements to dispose of potentially hazardous wastes. It is unclear as to the amount of SCR catalyst which SCR-Tech may purchase, but it is possible such purchases 31 ultimately may be substantial, which would potentially significantly increase the risk profile of SCR-Tech’s business. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO EMISSIONS CONTROL SOLUTIONS FOR DIESEL ENGINES In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere, any of which could adversely impact our efforts to develop emissions control solutions for diesel engines, the following additional risks particularly relate to our efforts to develop emissions control solutions for diesel engines and could negatively impact our entire company. We may never complete the research and development of commercially viable emissions control solutions for diesel engines. We are in the very early development stage associated with emissions control solutions for diesel engines. We do not know when or whether we will successfully complete research and development of a commercially viable product in the diesel OEM or stationary diesel genset markets. Economic and technical difficulties may prevent us from completing development of products for diesel engines or commercializing those products. Furthermore, a viable market for our product concept may never develop. If demand for our emissions control solutions were to develop in the diesel OEM or stationary genset markets using our emissions control solutions, we likely would face intense competition from various competitors, including large diesel engine OEMs, and we may be unable to compete successfully. In addition, diesel engine OEMs and other competitors may create technology alternatives that could render our systems obsolete prior to commercialization. Moreover, we may conclude that the potential return from our investment in the diesel OEM or stationary diesel genset markets does not justify our continued investment in these opportunities, and thus decide to shut-down this program. In this regard, we recently terminated our diesel retrofit program, which resulted in the loss of our investment in such program. Further, no assurance can be given that we will not incur substantial expenses to discontinue these remaining business programs, including personnel reduction costs, environmental clean-up and equipment disposal costs, lease termination expenses and other shut-down related costs. We may not have sufficient capital to complete development of a commercially viable emissions control solution for diesel engines. Even if we ultimately overcome all the technical and business hurdles described herein to develop a commercially viable diesel emissions product, we may never have the opportunity to fully undertake the necessary development because of the significant financial requirements to develop a commercial product. We currently estimate that the total remaining development costs for continuing to pursue our diesel OEM NOx and PM solutions for new, over-the-road diesel engines will be in excess of $10 million, and potentially substantially in excess of such sum. We likely will not have sufficient capital to complete necessary development and commercialization work without a significant financial or equivalent commitment from diesel OEM’s or suppliers, especially since we would be unlikely to receive any significant commercial revenues from a product until 2009. If we determine that we do not have the financial capability to complete the necessary development and commercialization work, then we may determine not to continue pursuing some or all of our diesel-related programs even if we believe we ultimately could solve all technical and business problems related to a product launch and even if we believe that the financial benefits of completing such a product would be significant. If we reach such a conclusion, then we likely would find it necessary or desirable to sell or shut down our efforts in the diesel emission control solutions. In such event, we likely would realize little if any significant value from our investment in the diesel emissions control solution market. Further, the costs of discontinuing our diesel emissions control solutions business may exceed any value from a sale of this business as a result of shut- 32 down related costs, such as personnel expenses and any environmental clean-up and equipment disposal costs. We will be heavily dependent on developing relationships with diesel industry companies, including large diesel OEMs or suppliers to OEMs, and their commitment to adopt and market our diesel emissions reduction technology for their or their customers’ diesel engines in order to enter the diesel OEM marketplace; any agreements with these diesel industry companies may limit our market opportunities. In order to take advantage of the opportunities for NOx control solutions in the diesel OEM market, we must develop a solution that results in significant NOx reduction (approximately 90%) to meet impending United States, European Union or Japanese requirements for diesel engines. This will require us to partner with one or more diesel industry companies, including large diesel OEMs or suppliers to OEMs. Until we can demonstrate the viability of our diesel fuel processor for the diesel OEM market, it is unlikely we can develop the necessary OEM or OEM supplier relationships. Our failure to commercialize a diesel retrofit solution could adversely impact our ability develop the necessary credibility with diesel OEMs or suppliers with respect to our diesel OEM solutions. Even if we are successful in entering into agreements with a diesel OEM or OEM supplier, the agreements may provide the OEM with the right to be the exclusive market channel for distribution of our technology and may otherwise limit our ability to enter into other OEM or OEM supplier agreements. An agreement may provide for exclusivity for particular engine sizes and for limited periods of time. The agreements also may provide that either party can terminate the agreement, but not necessarily the exclusivity provision. A decision by an OEM or OEM supplier to discontinue the commercialization of our technology in certain engines could significantly limit or foreclose our access to the market for those engines or prevent us from entering into agreements with other OEMs or OEM suppliers regarding the application of our technology to some of their competing engines. We may incur significant costs in developing our diesel technology with OEMs or suppliers to OEMs; if any OEM or OEM supplier does not complete development for any reason, we may not be able to recover costs incurred for the development with that OEM or OEM supplier. We may incur significant costs in developing our diesel technology with OEMs or suppliers to OEMs for the diesel OEM market. Further, the technological development required to meet the requirements for this decade may be significant, and the capital required to be invested in such a development is likely to be substantial. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any solution developed by us will be technically feasible, cost-effective or acceptable to OEMs or OEM suppliers. We are not likely to recover any significant portion of these costs through contractual reimbursement from the OEMs or OEM suppliers. Thus, we will likely bear the majority of the development costs ourselves. If OEMs or OEM suppliers do not complete development work for any reason, we will not be able to recover our development costs through product sales. We will be dependent on third party development of NOx adsorbers for our diesel products. Even if our diesel fuel processor is accepted in the diesel markets, if NOx adsorbers for heavy-duty diesel engine applications do not evolve to a state of commercial viability, OEMs will not ultimately adopt our technology. While NOx adsorbers are in limited commercial use today in medium and light-duty diesel engine applications, a variety of technical hurdles associated with the use of NOx adsorbers in heavy-duty diesel engine applications remain. Although our diesel fuel processor has the benefit of lessening certain NOx adsorber limitations, significant technological hurdles, including cost, size, durability, operating range and the level of NOx reduction from NOx adsorbers must be overcome to ensure the feasibility of commercializing our diesel fuel processor in combination with a NOx adsorber for heavy-duty diesel engine applications. The failure of third parties to develop solutions to current NOx adsorber limitations in 33 a timely manner will effectively eliminate our diesel fuel processor from market consideration. We may not have any ability to significantly influence the resolution of NOx adsorber issues. Further, a supplier’s failure to develop and supply components in a timely manner or at all, or to develop or supply components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture our products. In addition, to the extent that our supply partners use technology or manufacturing processes that are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative sources. We will be dependent on third party suppliers for the supply of key components for our diesel products. We have not entered into commercial arrangements with suppliers of the key components which may be required for our diesel emissions reduction solutions. We do not know when or whether we will secure arrangements with suppliers of required materials and components for our diesel products, even if they are successfully developed, or whether these arrangements will be on terms that will allow us to achieve our objectives. Even if we can develop a commercially viable diesel OEM or stationary diesel genset solution, if we are unable to obtain suppliers of all the required materials and components for our systems, our business could be harmed. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner, its failure to supply materials or components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources of these materials and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, could harm our ability to manufacture our diesel solutions. We may be subject to significant competition from companies including those that may have substantially greater resources and market credibility. The size of the diesel OEM and stationary diesel genset markets has attracted a number of significant participants. In the diesel OEM market, there are a number of significant competitors, including Arvin Meritor, Eaton Corporation and Delphi Corporation and the major diesel OEMs such as Cummins, Caterpillar, Detroit Diesel, ITEC and Volvo. Some of these competitors have announced solutions for the 2007 NOx regulations. Further, these competitors also have substantially greater resources and credibility than we do in this market. There can be no assurance that we can successfully compete in either the diesel OEM or diesel genset markets, even if we were to develop a technologically feasible emissions solution in these markets. Alternate technologies may provide a more effective solution than our diesel NOx reduction technology. Even if we are able to develop and commercialize a NOx reduction solution for diesel engines, there can be no assurance that any such solution will be either practical or cost-effective. Currently, a number of competitors have developed verified NOx control solutions in the diesel retrofit market and a number of competitors have developed announced solutions in the diesel OEM market to comply with the United States 2007 regulations. These solutions are based on different technology than the basis for our proposed NOx solution, including EGR and other advanced engine controls. An additional potential competitive threat may come from proven SCR technology. We are aware that some European diesel engine OEMs have implemented SCR for heavy-duty diesel engine applications in Europe to meet the Euro IV emissions standards took effect in October 2005. Although we believe our proposed solution, if successful, will constitute a cost-effective and competitive solution in the diesel OEM market, no assurance can be given that alternate technologies will not prove to be more reliable or otherwise more successful in the market. Failure to successfully demonstrate our technology in field tests could negatively impact demand for our products. We have recently encountered technical problems associated with our diesel retrofit product, specifically related to the performance and integration of various third-party components and have 34 terminated this program. We also may encounter technical problems in connection with our other diesel products for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology or the technology of third parties, or our failure to maintain and service our products properly. Many of these potential problems and any resulting commercial delays are beyond our control. Any problem or perceived problem with our field tests could materially harm our reputation and impair market acceptance of, and demand for, our products. We may not meet our product development and commercialization milestones, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have established product development and commercialization milestones that we use to assess our progress toward developing commercially viable emissions control solutions for our diesel engine applications. These milestones relate to technology and design improvements as well as to dates for achieving product development goals. To gauge our progress, we operate, test and evaluate our diesel products under various testing conditions. If our systems exhibit technical defects or are unable to meet cost or performance goals, including targeted levels of NOx or PM reduction, temperature variability, durability and fuel economy, our commercialization schedule could be delayed and potential purchasers of our initial commercial products may decline to purchase them or choose to purchase alternative technologies. We have in the past failed to achieve announced technical milestones and we cannot be sure that we will successfully achieve our milestones in the future or that any failure to achieve these milestones will not result in potential competitors gaining advantages in our target market. Failure to meet publicly announced milestones could also have a material adverse effect on our operations. Significant warranty and product liability risks could arise from our diesel emissions reduction solutions. Even if we are able to successfully develop and commercialize emissions control solutions for the diesel OEM, or stationary diesel genset markets, we will be required to provide product warranties. It is unclear as to the nature of these warranties at this time, but the warranties are likely to include NOx or PM reduction at agreed upon levels for substantial time and/or mileage requirements. If we are unable to satisfy these warranties, we could incur significant liability to diesel OEMs and potentially end users, including consumers. In addition, the manufacture, sale and distribution of our diesel fuel processor could expose us to potential product liability to customers and end users, including consumers. Any such liability could be significant and may not be insurable. We have no experience manufacturing our diesel products on a commercial basis. To date, we have focused primarily on research and development and have no experience manufacturing diesel products on a commercial scale. We may not be able to develop efficient, low-cost manufacturing capability and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to manufacture our diesel products on a commercial scale. We may also encounter difficulty purchasing components and materials, particularly those with long lead times. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capability and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to meet our product commercialization schedules or to satisfy the requirements of our customers. ADDITIONAL RISKS RELATING TO RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere, any of which could adversely impact our operations, the following additional risks particularly relate to our restructuring activities and recent developments and could negatively impact our entire company. 35 We have ceased any further development or commercialization efforts associated with our Xonon Cool Combustion product for gas turbines and we are exploring strategic alternatives for such business. We may not realize any significant value from such alternatives. We have ceased any further development or commercialization efforts associated with our Xonon Cool Combustion product for gas turbines as a result of the adverse state of the small gas turbine market, continuing delays in OEM commercial timelines, lack of OEM funding commitments and continuing expenses in continuing development and commercialization activities without any significant revenues or prospects of significant revenues. In September 2005 we announced our election to terminate our Xonon Module Supply Agreement with Kawasaki Gas Turbines-Americas (“Kawasaki”), effective December 13, 2005, having determined that there was no business or financial justification to continue the agreement on its current terms. We terminated our Collaborative Commercialization and License Agreement with General Electric (“GE”) on March 13, 2006, after GE informed us that it did not intend to pursue commercialization of a Xonon-equipped GE gas turbine. We are currently exploring whether we can sell our Xonon-equipped gas turbine business. However, we may not receive any significant value from such a sale. If there is no buyer, we will incur expenses to discontinue this business program, including personnel reduction costs, environmental clean-up and equipment disposal costs, lease termination expenses and other shut-down related costs. We are involved in a contract dispute with Kawasaki that could result in adverse financial consequences and a diversion of resources and management time and attention from business operations. In September 2005 we announced our election to terminate our Xonon Module Supply Agreement with Kawasaki Gas Turbines-Americas (“Kawasaki”), effective December 13, 2005, having determined that there was no business or financial justification to continue the agreement on its current terms. After receiving notice of such termination, but prior to December 13, 2005, Kawasaki purported to place an order for 27 Xonon modules at a total price of approximately $1 million which we rejected. Kawasaki has disputed our rejection of the purchase order and has indicated it may seek arbitration of the dispute pursuant to the Supply Agreement. We do not believe we have any obligation to fill this order upon the terms proposed by Kawasaki or on any other terms. Further, we do not believe we have the manufacturing capabilities to fill such an order, and even if we did, we believe the cost of completing such order would be substantially in excess of the $1 million order price. Thus, if Kawasaki was to seek arbitration and an arbitrator was to order us to complete the order, we would suffer significant losses. However, the Supply Agreement contains a maximum limit on damages in the amount of the order price, which we believe should limit any potential damages in arbitration. There can be no assurance, however, as to the result of any arbitration or the amount of damages which could occur if Kawasaki was to prevail in such an arbitration or other litigation. In addition, resolution of this dispute, whether by litigation, arbitration or otherwise, could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may never complete the research and development of a commercially viable fuel processor to be utilized with PEM fuel cell applications. In October 2005, we completed work on a $11,658,000 DOE cost-shared contract initiated in October 2001 associated with the development of a compact fuel processor that could convert conventional fuels, such as gasoline, to hydrogen to power proton exchange membrane (“PEM”) fuel cells, with applications in automotive, stationary, auxiliary and back-up power. Due to a lack of continued funding or partner commitments and our efforts to rationalize our ongoing operations, we are no longer conducting research or development activities associated with fuel processing for fuel cell applications. We do not believe that our PEM fuel cell business has any signficant value at this stage of development, and thus we do not believe we could realize any signficant value from a sale of this business. 36 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 