Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Competition from a variety of other weight management industry participants or the development of more effective or more favorably perceived weight management methods could result in decreased demand for our products and services. The weight management industry is highly competitive. We compete against a wide range of providers of weight management products and services. Our competitors include: self-help weight management regimens and other self-help weight management products and publications such as books, tapes and magazines; commercial weight management programs; Internet weight management approaches; dietary supplements and meal replacement products; weight management services administered by doctors, nutritionists and dieticians; surgical procedures; the pharmaceutical industry; government agencies and non-profit groups that offer weight management services; and fitness centers. Additional competitors may emerge as new or different products or methods of weight management are developed and marketed. More effective or more favorably perceived diet and weight management methods, including pharmaceutical treatments, fat and sugar substitutes or other technological and scientific advances in weight management, also could be developed. This competition may reduce demand for our products and services. Any such decrease may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The purchasing decisions of weight management customers are highly subjective and can be influenced by many factors, such as brand image, marketing programs, cost and perception of the efficacy of the product and service offerings. Moreover, customers can, and frequently do, change weight management approaches easily and at little cost. For example, in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, our revenue growth was adversely affected by increased popularity and media exposure of low-carbohydrate diets. Our operating results depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and advertising programs. Our business success depends on our ability to attract and retain members to our meetings and subscribers to WeightWatchers.com. The effectiveness of our marketing practices, in particular our advertising campaigns, is important to our financial performance. If our marketing and advertising campaigns do not generate a sufficient number of members and subscribers, our results of operations will be adversely affected. If we do not continue to develop innovative new products and services or if our products and services are not accepted by the market, our business may suffer. The weight management industry is subject to changing customer demands based, in large part, on the efficacy and popular appeal of weight management programs. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to develop and market new products and services and to enhance our existing products and services on a timely basis to respond to new and evolving customer demands, achieve market acceptance and keep pace with new nutritional and weight management developments. We may not be successful in developing, introducing on a timely basis or marketing any new or enhanced products and services, and we cannot assure you that any new or enhanced products or services will be accepted by the market. Our failure to develop new and innovative products and services or the failure of our products and services to be accepted by the market would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Weight Watchers brand could be impaired due to actions taken by our franchisees and licensees. We believe that the Weight Watchers brand is one of our most valuable assets and that our reputation provides us with a competitive advantage. Our franchisees operate their businesses under our brand. In addition, we license the Weight Watchers brand to third-party manufacturers of a variety of goods, including food products. Because our franchisees and licensees are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, 12 actions taken by them, including breaches of their contractual obligations, such as not following our diets or not maintaining our quality standards, could harm our brand or reputation. Also, the products we license to third parties may be subject to product recalls or other deficiencies. Any negative publicity associated with these actions would adversely affect our reputation and may result in decreased products sales, meeting attendance and Internet subscriptions and, as a result, lower revenues and profits. Our international operations expose us to economic, political and social risks in the countries in which we operate. The international nature of our operations involves a number of risks, including changes in U.S. and foreign government regulations, tariffs, taxes and exchange controls, economic downturns, inflation and political and social instability in the countries in which we operate and our dependence on foreign personnel. Foreign government regulations may also restrict our ability to operate in those countries, acquire new businesses or repatriate dividends from foreign subsidiaries back to the United States. We cannot be certain that we will be able to enter and successfully compete in additional foreign markets or that we will be able to continue to compete in the foreign markets in which we currently operate. We are exposed to foreign currency risks from our international operations that could adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our revenues and operating costs are denominated in foreign currencies. We are therefore exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our foreign operations receive revenues and pay expenses. We do not currently hedge, and have not historically hedged, our operational exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Our consolidated financial results are denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international revenues and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. In addition, the assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the period. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are recorded in shareholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Translation adjustments arising from intercompany receivables with our foreign subsidiaries are generally recorded as a component of other expense (income). Accordingly, changes in currency exchange rates will cause our net income and shareholders’ equity to fluctuate. We may not successfully make or integrate acquisitions. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue selected acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effect acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we enter into these transactions, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate or we may experience: difficulties in integrating any acquired companies and products into our existing business; attrition of key personnel from acquired businesses; significant charges or expenses; higher costs of integration than we anticipated; or unforeseen operating difficulties that require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Consummating these transactions could also result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also issue additional equity in connection with these transactions, which would dilute our existing shareholders. Disputes with our franchise operators could divert our management’s attention from their ordinary responsibilities. In the past, we have had disputes with our franchisees regarding operations and other contractual issues. We continue to have disputes with some of our franchisees regarding the interpretation of franchisee rights as they relate to the Internet and mail-order products. These disputes and any future disputes could divert the attention of our management from their ordinary responsibilities. 13 Our results of operations may decline as a result of a downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence. Our results of operations are highly dependent on meeting fees, product sales and Internet product subscriptions. A downturn in general economic conditions or consumer confidence and spending in any of our major markets, including as a result of a terrorist attack, could result in people curtailing their discretionary spending, which, in turn, could reduce attendance at our meetings, product sales and Internet product subscriptions. Any such reduction would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, any event that discourages people from gathering with others, including as a result of a health epidemic, could adversely affect our business. The seasonal nature of our business could cause our operating results to fluctuate. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Our business is seasonal with revenues generally decreasing at year end and during the summer months. This seasonality could cause our share price to fluctuate as the results of an interim financial period may not be indicative of our full year results. Seasonality also impacts relative revenue and profitability of each quarter of the year, both on a quarter-to-quarter and year-over-year basis. The timing of certain holidays, particularly Easter, which precedes the spring diet season and occurs between March 22 and April 25, may affect our results of operations and the year-to-year comparability of our results. For example, in fiscal 2006, Easter fell on April 16, which resulted in the spring diet season beginning later than it did in fiscal 2005. This seasonality could cause our stock price to fluctuate as the comparative change in our results for an interim financial period may not be indicative of our full year results. In addition, our meeting operations are subject to local conditions beyond our control, including weather, natural disasters and other extraordinary events, that may prevent current or prospective members from attending or joining meetings. For example, our NACO attendance was adversely affected in the third quarter of fiscal 2005 by the impact of Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath, compounded by two subsequent hurricanes. The inability of prospective members to join our meetings at the beginning of a diet season could adversely affect our results of operations throughout the entire diet season. Third parties may infringe on our brand name and other intellectual property rights, which may have an adverse impact on our business. We currently rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights, including our brand name. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand name, products and services could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our brand name and other intellectual property could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property, especially in Internet-related businesses, are uncertain and evolving. We cannot assure you that these evolving legal standards will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights in the future. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims. Third parties may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, if we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop selling the product or service or stop using the software, technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing product, service, software, technology or content or develop alternative non-infringing products, services, software, technology or content. If we cannot license, develop alternatives or stop using the 14 product, service, software, technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our revenues and our ability to compete effectively, increase our costs and harm our business. Any failure of our technology or systems to perform satisfactorily could result in expenditure of significant resources, impair our operations or damage our reputation. We rely on software, hardware, network systems and similar technology that is either developed by us or licensed from third parties to operate our websites and subscription offerings and to maintain the recurring billing system associated with certain of our commitment plans, such as Monthly Pass. As much of this technology is relatively new and complex, there may be future errors, defects or performance problems, including when we update our technology to expand and enhance our capabilities. Our technology may malfunction or suffer from defects that become apparent only after extended use. In addition, our operations depend on our ability to protect our information technology systems against damage from fire, power loss, water, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, vandalism and other malicious acts and similar unexpected adverse events. Interruptions in our offerings or websites could result from unknown hardware defects, insufficient capacity or the failure of our website hosting and telecommunications providers to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We do not have a fully redundant system that includes an instant back-up hosting facility. As a result of these possible defects or problems, our websites, our subscription products or certain of our commitment plans could be rendered unreliable or be perceived as unreliable by customers. Any failure of our technology or systems could result in the expenditure of significant resources, impair our operations or damage our reputation. Our reputation and the appeal of our products and services offerings may be harmed by security breaches. Unauthorized users who penetrate our information security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions to the subscription offerings on our websites. As a result, it may become necessary to expend significant additional amounts of capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by unauthorized users. These expenditures, however, may not prove to be a timely remedy against unauthorized users who are able to penetrate our information security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could adversely affect our computer systems and, in turn, harm our business. An increasing number of states require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information. Other states and governmental entities are considering such “notice” laws. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If we experience a security breach and such notice or public disclosure is required in the future, our reputation and our business may be harmed. Privacy concerns among prospective and existing customers regarding our use of personal information collected on our websites or through our products and services, such as weight management information, financial data, email addresses and home addresses, could keep them from using our websites or purchasing our products or services. Industry-wide events or events with respect to our websites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using our websites or purchasing our offerings, which could harm our business. Our businesses are subject to legislative and regulatory restrictions. A number of laws and regulations govern our advertising, franchise operations and relations with consumers, employees and other service providers in the countries in which we operate. The FTC and certain states and foreign jurisdictions regulate advertising, disclosures to consumers, privacy, consumer pricing or billing arrangements, and other consumer matters. During the mid-1990s, the FTC filed complaints against a number of commercial weight management providers alleging violations of federal law in connection with the use of advertisements that featured 15 testimonials, claims for program success and program costs. In 1997, we entered into a consent order with the FTC settling all contested issues raised in the complaint filed against us. The consent order requires us to comply with certain procedures and disclosures in connection with our advertisements of products and services. Since we operate our meetings business both in the United States and internationally, we are subject to many distinct employment, labor and benefits laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications or commerce over the Internet such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, are becoming more prevalent and remain unsettled. Future legislation or regulations, including legislation or regulations affecting our marketing and advertising practices, relations with consumers or franchisees or our food and weight management products and services, may have an adverse impact on us. Our debt service obligations and the restrictions of our debt covenants could impede our operations and flexibility. Our financial performance could be affected by our level of debt. As of December 30, 2006, our total debt was $849.2 million. Weight Watchers International had, as of December 30, 2006, total debt of $663.4 million and additional availability under its revolving credit facility of $184.1 million. As of December 30, 2006, WeightWatchers.com had total debt of $185.8 million, which was incurred to finance its redemption of its shares held by Artal in December 2005. In January 2007, we increased our total debt by approximately $1 billion, which was incurred to finance our tender offer and repay the WeightWatchers.com debt in January 2007 and to purchase a portion of our shares held by Artal in February 2007. As of February 2, 2007, our total debt was $1,857.9 million, comprised of $1,550.0 million outstanding under term loans and $307.9 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We also had additional availability under our revolving credit facility of $190.1 million on this date. As of January 26, 2007, WeightWatchers.com had no debt outstanding. We expect to generate the cash necessary to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on all of our outstanding debt primarily from our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt service obligations thus depends on our future performance, which may be affected by financial, business, economic, demographic and other factors, such as attitudes toward weight management and pressure from our competitors. If we do not have enough money to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. In such an event, we may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. As described above, in January 2007, we increased our total debt by approximately $1 billion. In fiscal 2007, our interest expense will increase as a result of the increase in our amount of debt. Our credit facilities contain customary covenants, including covenants that in certain circumstances restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on and redeem capital stock, make other restricted payments, including investments, sell our assets and enter into consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets. Our credit facilities also require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control and we cannot assure you that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios, tests or restrictions could result in an event of default under the credit facilities. If an event of default exists under the credit facilities, the lenders could elect to cease making loans and declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders under the credit facilities accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness that would become due as a result of any acceleration. 16 Artal controls us and may have conflicts of interest with other shareholders in the future. Artal controls us and is able to control the election and removal of our directors and determine our corporate and management policies, including potential mergers or acquisitions, payment of dividends, asset sales, the amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of our ownership may delay or deter possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. Even if Artal beneficially owns less than 50% but 10% or more of our common stock, Artal will have the right pursuant to an agreement with us to nominate directors to our Board of Directors in proportion to its stock ownership. The interests of Artal may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Artal controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a “controlled company” and such a company may elect not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. We have elected to be treated as a “controlled company.” Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Virginia corporate law contain provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the laws of Virginia, the state in which we are incorporated, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. In addition, a change of control of our company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors or as a result of the shareholders’ rights plan adopted by our Board of Directors. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 