D. Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. 5 Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results are substantially dependent on one product. In 2014, revenue derived from the sale of cast resin transformers accounted for 62.2% of our net sales as compared to 71.08% last year, or RMB 915.8 million (US$ 149.9 million). This decrease was the result of selling more switchgears and unit sub-systems in 2014 than we sold in 2013. We began to work to balance the sales of different products in 2014 to moderate the risk of relying on sales of cast resin transformers. This strategy will continue through 2015. However, in the near term we still expect a significant portion of our revenue to continue to come from the sale of cast resin transformers. Accordingly, our immediate future operating results will still depend on the demand for this product. We cannot assure you that the market will continue to demand our product or we will be successful in marketing any new or enhanced products. If our competitors produce new products that are superior to our cast resin transformers in performance or price, demand for our product may decline. A decline in demand for our cast resin transformers as a result of competition, technological change, economic conditions, restrictions on our ability to market this product, or other factors would reduce our total revenues and harm our ability to maintain profitability. Our revenues would decline significantly if we lost one or more of our largest customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from our largest customers. Sales to our five largest customers in the aggregate for 2012, 2013 and 2014, accounted for 21.3%, 22.3%, and 19.7%, respectively, of our net sales. Sales to our largest customer during those years accounted for 12.7%, 10.5%, and 7.3%, respectively, of our net sales. We cannot assure you that any of our principal customers will maintain their volume of business with us or that a similar volume of business will be forthcoming from new or existing customers to replace any lost business. The loss of one or more of our principal customers without replacement by a customer of similar volume could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We sell most of our reactors to one large original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, and any significant decrease of sales of reactors to this OEM would have a negative effect on the revenues we receive from the sale of reactors. In 2014, revenue derived from the sale of reactors accounted for 6.3 % of our net sales, or RMB 92.1 million (US$ 15.1 million). We sell most of our reactors to one OEM. This is in contrast to a more diversified customer base for our cast resin transformers. Any significant decrease in the sale of reactors to this large OEM could have a material adverse effect on revenue derived from the sale of reactors. In addition, if we fail to collect accounts receivable from this OEM, we could be subject to significant financial exposure. If we lose our key personnel, our ability to operate our company and our results of operations may suffer. Our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to retain key members of our management who are familiar with our business and our potential markets. If we lose their services or the services of other key personnel, our financial results or business prospects may be harmed. We do not have “key man” or similar insurance on any of these individuals. Additionally, our future growth and success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train and retain sales, marketing, and management personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to manage our operations effectively. Competition for experienced executives from numerous companies may limit our ability to hire or retain personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, the employment of non-citizens may be restricted by applicable immigration laws. 6 The expansion of our operations internationally may be adversely affected by economic, political, legal and other uncertainties of some foreign countries. Although most of our products are sold to customers based principally in China, we sell to markets worldwide. In the future, our international operations and sales may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect Chinese companies doing business internationally: ● political and economic risks, including political instability, ● currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations, ● changes in import/export regulations, tariff and freight rates, and ● various forms of protectionist trade legislation that currently exist or have been proposed in some foreign countries. Our growth may be slowed if demand for electric power slows, declines or if there is a decline in fixed asset investment in China. Our products are used for the distribution of electricity. Demand for our products is linked closely to increased demand for electrical power in China. According to the China Electricity Council (“CEC”), China consumed 5.52 trillion KWH of electricity in 2014, up 3.8% over the prior year. There can be no assurance that demand for electricity will continue to grow at steady rates. Any material decline in the consumption of electricity in China is likely to have an adverse impact on our business. Our products are used in infrastructure, industrial manufacturing facilities, commercial and residential buildings, and by utilities in building electric grids. Demand for our products is affected by the level of investment in fixed assets. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China (“NBS”), the investment in fixed assets of China in 2014 was 50,200.5 billion yuan, up by 15.7% over the previous year. We cannot assure that the level of investment in fixed assets in China will continue at 2014 rates. Any material decline in fixed asset investment in China is likely to have an adverse impact on our business. Our growth may be slowed if there is a decline in investment in wind energy. We supply power distribution equipment for wind turbine platforms. In 2014, the sale of wind energy products accounted for approximately 6.3% of our net sales, or RMB 92.6 million (US$ 15.2 million). The majority of the wind energy products we sold in 2014 were delivered to Europe and North America. Any material decline of investment in wind energy in the principal markets we serve is likely to have an adverse impact on our business. Increase in cost, disruption of supply or of shortage raw materials could harm our business. The principal raw materials we require for our business are (1) silicon steel, which forms the core of our transformers, (2) copper and aluminum foil and wire, which wind around the core to form the coil, and (3) epoxy resin and electric isolation material, which serve as the insulation medium between coils. Prevailing prices for such commodities are subject to fluctuations due to changes in supply and demand and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as global political and economic conditions. Historically, prices for some of these raw materials have been volatile and unpredictable, and such volatility is expected to continue. In the event of unexpected increases in raw material costs, we may be unable to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue or operating income. Furthermore, sustained declines in raw materials prices may put downward pressure on the price of our products and increase competition by enabling our competitors to lower the price of their products and lower the barriers of entry for new market entrants, thereby reduce our sales revenue. Currently, we do not hedge against changes in commodity prices. We maintain at least two suppliers for each of the principal raw materials we require for our business in order to enhance our ability to obtain an adequate supply of high quality, competitively-priced raw materials. We usually keep a two or three month supply of these raw materials in our inventory. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. Also, if our suppliers fail to supply these raw materials to us for any reason, including due to adverse financial developments affecting the supplier, and/or due to unexpected demand, labor shortages or disputes, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 Increased competition may result in reduced prices and loss of market share. The market for cast resin transformers in China is highly competitive and we expect increased competition in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions or loss of market share, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our future success will largely depend on our marketing efforts and ability to adapt our product to more applications. We may also face foreign competition in China from firms that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Increased domestic competition in China and foreign participation may also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as our business and prospects. In addition, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or new competitors. We may face claims or lawsuits for losses due to the failure of our products that may result in costly litigation and divert the attention of our management. Our business exposes us to liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of electrical equipment. Any failure of our products could result in direct and consequential losses to our customers, which could result in our customers filing claims or lawsuits against us for losses resulting from the failure of our products. If a litigant were successful against us, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect our market reputation, which could result in a decline in demand for our products. Although we have purchased some product liability and product quality insurance, the scope of these insurance policies does not include all markets to which we sell. Furthermore, the scope and/or amount coverage of these insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover all our costs and losses. We may be subject to trademark infringement claims by third parties that could subject us to financial liability or limit our product offerings, and our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our trademark. We registered the trademark “JST” with the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce in China. We believe that much of our success in growing sales and market share is due to our focus on providing high quality products and services. Achieving greater customer recognition of our trademark is important to our marketing and expansion efforts. With regard to our current trademark or any future trademarks, we cannot be sure that any one or all of the following scenarios has not occurred or will not occur, any one of which could have a material adverse effect upon us: ● we are unable to register other names or service marks that we may consider important; ● our currently registered trademark or any future registered trademark currently does or will violate the proprietary rights of others; ● our trademarks are not upheld by the Chinese government or its judicial system if challenged; ● we are prevented from using our trademarks; or ● we will not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. ● we have not registered our trademark outside of China and we cannot be certain that the laws of other countries will protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of China. We may be subject to patent infringement claims by third parties that could subject us to financial liability or limit our product offerings. We own the rights to various utility, invention and design patents which have been granted or are pending. The patents cover aspects of our product and manufacturing technologies. All of our patents have been issued by the Chinese government. To date, we have not filed for patent protection outside of China. Consequently, our patents provide some protection of our technology in China, but they do not provide protection elsewhere. We currently hold a license, granted by Schneider Electric (China) Investment Co. Ltd., for the manufacture of certain switchgears. We manufacture low and medium voltage switchgear products under license from Schneider. We also hold a license, granted by Siemens Ltd. China to manufacture SIVACON 8pt low voltage switchboards. We also licensed from Hitran Corporation certain VPI reactor designs used in wind turbine platforms. If our arrangements with these licensors terminate, or expire without renewal, we could be prohibited from manufacturing and selling these products. We may not be able to enter into other license agreements, or enter into such agreements on commercially reasonable terms, to continue to manufacture switchgears and reactors. Furthermore, we may not be able to redesign our product to avoid infringement. Any required modification of our products or development of new products could also harm our business. 8 Any failure by us to control the use or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances or to obtain work safety and professional health approvals, could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations. We utilize potentially toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and materials in our research and development and production processes, and we are subject to regulations and periodic monitoring by local environmental protection and work safety authorities. In addition, we are required to comply with all PRC national and local environmental protection and work safety laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with relevant environmental, work safety and health laws, regulations and/or administrative rules relating to hazardous materials and chemicals in the future, we may be required to pay fines, suspend production or cease our business operations. In addition, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. Any failure by us to control the use of or to adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspension of our business operations. Our financial performance and prospects could be affected by natural calamities or health epidemics, and we have limited insurance coverage. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural calamities (such as earthquake or fire), health epidemics (such as H1N1 influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome), or other epidemics. Since we keep on site materials, work in progress, and some finished goods ready for shipment, there is a risk that these goods and our premises may be damaged or destroyed by earthquake, fire, and other natural calamities. Any disruption of electricity supply or any outbreak of fire or similar calamities at our premises may result in a disruption of our business. At present, insurance companies in China offer limited coverage for business related risks. As such, we only have a very limited form of insurance for our properties covering loss arising from theft, fire, lightning, and explosives. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations and our coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur. Any business disruption, natural disaster, or litigation resulting therefrom could expose us to substantial costs and losses. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price. We are subject to reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we establish and maintain an effective internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report. Our Annual Report on Form 20-F must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are ongoing and also apply to future years. We expect that our internal control over financial reporting will continue to evolve as we continue to grow our business. Although we are committed to continue to improve our internal control processes and will continue to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. 9 Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations Changes in PRC government policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has pursued policies that encourage private economic activity, that emphasize the utilization of market forces in resource allocation, and that has led to greater economic decentralization and reduction in state ownership of productive assets. However, the PRC government still maintains a high level of involvement in the economy. Despite economic decentralization and reductions in state ownership of productive assets, the PRC government still owns or controls a substantial portion of productive assets in China. The PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development through central planning and industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic development through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Because a substantial portion of our assets and business operations are in China, PRC government policies that negatively affect the economy, our industry or us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Uncertainties in the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in a common law system, it is a system in which cases have limited precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly increased the protections afforded to various forms of foreign or private-sector investment in China. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to various PRC laws and regulations generally applicable to companies in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties. From time to time, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce our legal rights. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published in a timely manner or at all) some of which may have retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Such uncertainties, including uncertainty over the scope and effect of our contractual, property (including intellectual property) and procedural rights, and any failure to respond to changes in the regulatory environment in China could materially and adversely affect our business and impede our ability to continue our operations. Furthermore, because certain of our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to affect service of process upon these non-residents in the United States or to enforce United States judgments against them in PRC courts. There is uncertainty as to whether PRC courts would enforce: ● judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or these non-resident directors and officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or ● in original actions brought in the PRC, liabilities against us or any of these non-resident directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Since a majority of our assets are located in the PRC, it may be difficult for an investor who obtains a judgment in the United States or another state to enforce such foreign judgment in the PRC. Such judgment may be further limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. 10 Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a PRC “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Such classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, that became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes and is generally subject to a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on its worldwide income. Under the Implementation Rules to the EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and properties of an enterprise. In addition, a circular, known as Circular 82, issued in April 2009, as amended in January 2014, by the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, specifies that certain offshore incorporated enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups will be classified as PRC resident enterprises if the following are located or resident in the PRC: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the senior management or directors having voting rights. Circular 82 also clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by shareholders that are non-PRC resident enterprises. Further to Circular 82, the SAT issued a bulletin, known as Bulletin 45, which took effect on September 1, 2011, to provide more guidance on the implementation of Circular 82 and clarify the reporting and filing obligations of such “Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated resident enterprises.” Bulletin 45 provides procedures and administrative details for the determination of PRC resident enterprise status and administration on post-determination matters. Although both Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreign individuals like us, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 and Bulletin 45 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident enterprise status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises, PRC enterprise groups or by PRC or foreign individuals. We do not believe that Jinpan International meets all of the conditions above and thus we do not believe that Jinpan International is a PRC resident enterprise, despite the fact that some of the members of our management team as well as the management team of our offshore holding company are located in China. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that Jinpan International is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax on our world-wide income, which could materially reduce our net income. In addition, we will also be subject to PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although dividends paid by one PRC tax resident to another PRC tax resident should qualify as “tax-exempt income” under the EIT Law, we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax on dividends, and the PRC tax authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are not controlled by any PRC enterprise or enterprise group and treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, dividends we pay to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders and gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from the sale of our shares may be become subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. In addition, future guidance may extend the withholding tax to dividends we pay to our non-PRC individual shareholders and gains derived by such shareholders from transferring our shares. In addition to the uncertainty in how the new “resident enterprise” classification could apply, it is also possible that the rules may change in the future, possibly with retroactive effect. If PRC income tax were imposed on gains realized through the transfer of our shares or on dividends paid to our non-resident investors, the value of the investment in our shares may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our shareholders whose jurisdictions of residence have tax treaties or arrangements with China may not qualify for benefits under such tax treaties or arrangements. 11 We face uncertainty regarding the PRC tax reporting obligations and consequences for certain indirect transfers of our operating company’s equity interests. Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and the SAT jointly issued a Circular 59 in April 2009, and the SAT issued a Circular 698 in December 2009. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident enterprise transfers the equity interests of a PRC “resident enterprise” indirectly by disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or an Indirect Transfer, and the overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (1) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (2) does not impose tax on foreign income of its residents, the non-resident enterprise, being the transferor, must report to the relevant tax authority of the PRC “resident enterprise” this Indirect Transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of reducing, avoiding or deferring PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC “resident enterprise” to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the relevant tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. In addition, the PRC “resident enterprise” is supposed to provide necessary assistance to support the enforcement of Circular 698. On March 28, 2011, the SAT released Bulletin [2011] No. 24, or Bulletin 24, to clarify several issues related to Circular 698. Bulletin 24 became effective on April 1, 2011. According to SAT Bulletin 24, the term “effective tax” refers to the effective tax on the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company; and the term “does not impose income tax” refers to the cases where the gain derived from disposition of the equity interests of an overseas holding company is not subject to income tax in the country/region where the overseas holding company is a resident. There is little guidance and practical experience as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “Indirect Transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. In addition, there are no formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. Moreover, although Circular 698 contains an exemption for transfers of publicly traded stock in a PRC resident enterprise, it remains unclear whether we will be deemed a PRC resident enterprise and whether such exemption will be applicable to the transfer of our shares. If any of the previous investments by non-resident investors in our company were determined by the tax authorities to lack reasonable commercial purpose, it is possible that the PRC tax authorities would pursue our offshore shareholders to conduct a filing regarding our offshore restructuring transactions where non-resident investors were involved and would request our PRC subsidiaries to assist in providing such disclosures. In addition, if our offshore subsidiary is deemed to lack substance, it could be disregarded by the PRC tax authorities. As a result, we and our non-resident investors may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or the non-resident investors’ investments in us. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 59 and Circular 698 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. Although we currently have no confirmed plans to pursue any acquisitions in China or elsewhere in the world, we may pursue acquisitions in the future that may involve complex corporate structures. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise under the EIT Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments under Circular 59 or Circular 698, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Discontinuation or revocation of any of the preferential tax treatments and government subsidies or imposition of any additional taxes and surcharges could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our PRC subsidiaries are incorporated in the PRC and governed by applicable PRC tax laws and regulations. The EIT Law and its Implementing Rules, both became effective on January 1, 2008, have adopted a uniform statutory enterprise income tax rate of 25% to all enterprises in China including foreign-invested enterprises. The EIT Law and its Implementation Rules also permit qualified “high and new technology enterprises,” or HNTEs, to enjoy a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% upon filing with relevant tax authorities. The qualification as a HNTE generally has a valid term of three years and the renewal of such qualification is subject to review by the relevant authorities in China. 12 The average enterprise income tax rate on our PRC subsidiaries in 2013 was 15%. Many of our PRC subsidiaries maintained their HNTE qualifications and enjoyed a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2013. Our PRC subsidiaries can continue to enjoy the preferential tax rate of 15% as long as they maintains their HNTE qualifications and duly conduct filing procedures with relevant tax authority regarding the tax incentive. If our PRC subsidiaries fail to maintain their HNTE qualifications or to renew the qualifications when their current term expires, the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our PRC subsidiaries may increase to 25%, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, or otherwise expose us to liability and penalties under PRC law. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, promulgated in October 2005 a SAFE Circular 75 that requires PRC citizens or residents to register with SAFE or its local branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving a roundtrip investment whereby the offshore entity acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests held by the PRC citizens or residents. In addition, such PRC citizens or residents must update their SAFE registrations when the offshore special purpose vehicle undergoes material events relating to increases or decreases in investment amount, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers or divisions, long-term equity or debt investments, external guarantees, or other material events that do not involve roundtrip investments. The term “control” under SAFE Circular 75 is broadly defined as the operation rights, beneficiary rights or decision-making rights acquired by the PRC residents in the offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, or PRC companies by such means as acquisition, trust, proxy, voting rights, repurchase, convertible bonds or other arrangements. Subsequent regulations further clarified that PRC subsidiaries of an offshore company governed by the SAFE regulations are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations in a timely manner by the offshore holding company’s shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents. If these shareholders or beneficial owners fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE branches. See “PRC Regulation—Regulations on Foreign Exchange Registration of Overseas Investment by PRC Residents.” If our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents do not complete their registration with the local SAFE branches, our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liabilities for our PRC subsidiaries under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions, including (1) the requirement by SAFE to return the foreign exchange remitted overseas within a period specified by SAFE, with a fine of up to 30% of the total amount of foreign exchange remitted overseas and deemed to have been evasive and (2) in circumstances involving serious violations, a fine of no less than 30% of and up to the total amount of remitted foreign exchange deemed evasive. Furthermore, the persons-in-charge and other persons at our PRC subsidiaries who are held directly liable for the violations may be subject to criminal sanctions. These foreign exchange regulations provide that PRC residents include both PRC citizens, meaning any individual who holds a PRC passport or resident identification card, and individuals who are non-PRC citizens but primarily reside in the PRC due to their economic ties to the PRC. We have requested all of our current shareholders and/or beneficial owners to disclose whether they or their shareholders or beneficial owners fall within the ambit of SAFE Circular 75 and its guidance and will urge relevant shareholders and beneficial owners, upon learning they are PRC residents, to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Circular 75 and other related rules. To our knowledge, all of our shareholders who are PRC citizens and hold interest in us, have registered with the local SAFE branch as required under SAFE Circular 75 and are in the process of amending certain applicable registrations with the local SAFE pursuant to SAFE Circular 75. We would expect these shareholders to also amend their registrations after the completion of this offering as required by PRC law. However, we cannot assure you that they can successfully amend their foreign exchange registrations with the local SAFE branch in full compliance with applicable laws after this offering. In addition, we may not be informed of the identities of all the PRC residents holding direct or indirect interest in our company, and we cannot provide any assurances that these PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by SAFE Circular 75 or other related rules. A failure by any of our current or future shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents to comply with the SAFE regulations may subject us to fines or other legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 13 Furthermore, it is unclear how these regulations, and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, either we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities and governmental control of currency conversion may delay or limit us from making additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, we are permitted to fund our existing PRC subsidiaries only through loans or capital contributions or to establish new PRC subsidiaries, subject to applicable government registration and approval requirements. None of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of SAFE. Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries or establishment of new PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. We are an international business company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. We may need dividends and other distributions on equity from our PRC subsidiaries to satisfy our liquidity requirements. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds until the total amount set aside reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. Our PRC subsidiaries may also allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to employee welfare and bonus funds at their discretion. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us or may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements. In addition, the EIT Law, and its implementation rules provide that withholding tax rate of up to 10% will be applicable to dividends payable by PRC companies to non-PRC-resident enterprises unless otherwise exempted or reduced according to treaties or arrangements between the PRC central government and governments of other countries or regions where the non-PRC-resident enterprises are incorporated. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Although our reporting currency is in U.S. dollars, our functional currency is the RMB. We earn revenues and incur costs and expenses in RMB. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate may also cause us to incur foreign exchange losses on any foreign currency holdings they may have. If we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. We also may face higher than anticipated costs for purchases that are made in other currencies. 14 The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar, and the RMB appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. However, the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to limit fluctuations in RMB exchange rates and achieve policy goals. During the period between July 2008 and June 2010, the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar had been stable and traded within a narrow range. However, the RMB fluctuated significantly during that period against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. Since June 2010, the RMB has started to slowly appreciate against the U.S. dollar, though there have been periods recently when the U.S. dollar has appreciated against the RMB. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how the relationship between the RMB and the U.S. dollar may change again. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a flexible currency policy. Any significant appreciation or depreciation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our net revenues, earnings and financial position in U.S. dollars. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to adequately hedge our exposure or at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee share ownership plans or share option plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules. Under the Stock Option Rules and other relevant rules and regulations, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of the overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by the PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. The participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. See “PRC Regulation—Regulation on Employee Stock Option Plans.” We and our PRC employees who have been granted share options will be subject to these regulations upon the completion of this offering. Failure of our PRC share option holders to complete their SAFE registrations may subject these PRC residents to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limited our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies and certain non-U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in China and other foreign countries. Our employees or other agents may engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by an auditor who is not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Auditors of companies that are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating audits and quality control procedures of any auditors operating in China, including our auditor. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares We may experience volatility in our share price, which could negatively affect your investment, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: ● quarterly variations in operating results; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● changes in market valuations of other similar companies; ● announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and ● future sales of common shares. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced volatility due to political and economic events that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our share price to fall regardless of our performance. The price of our common shares may be adversely affected by negative market sentiments about U.S. traded China based companies. In the last several years, numerous fraud allegations against U.S. listed China based companies have shaken the confidence of U.S. investors in these companies. This negative market sentiment not only affect the company facing fraud allegations, but may also adversely impact the share price of other U.S. listed China based companies. 16 Future issuance of additional common shares could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect our share price. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and un-issued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue 40,000,000 common shares and 2,000,000 preferred shares. The potential issuance of such additional common shares may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. We may also issue additional common shares or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common shares for capital-raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares. We may not continue to pay cash dividends in the future. We may not continue to pay cash dividends or even if we do, we may not do so at the current rate. We may elect at any time to retain all future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. Any future cash dividends will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, the availability of a surplus and other factors. For a discussion of the limits on our ability to pay dividends, see “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations – Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other payments to us, which may restrict our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements.” Because we are a British Virgin Islands company, your rights as a shareholder may be less clearly established as compared to the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum of association and articles of association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders may differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Under British Virgin Islands corporate law, our board of directors may negate or modify the three basic rights of shareholders (the right to vote, the right to an equal share in any dividend paid and the right to an equal share in any distribution of our surplus assets). Additionally, our board of directors could negate any transfer of our common shares between shareholders of record. Thus, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors than they would have as shareholders of a company incorporated in another jurisdiction. Because we are a British Virgin Islands company with substantially all of our assets and operations in China, you may not be able to enforce judgments against us that are obtained in United States courts. We are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and substantially all of our assets and operations are located in China. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon us within the United States or to enforce against us judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by British Virgin Islands counsel that judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States may be difficult to enforce in British Virgin Islands courts and that there is doubt as to whether British Virgin Islands courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in British Virgin Islands courts predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Our PRC counsel has given us similar advice about the ability of investors to effect service of process upon us within China or to enforce judgments against us obtained in the United States. 