Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our securities could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business Because a significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales of our cast resin transformers, any decrease in sales of cast resin transformers could harm our operating results. Sales generated by cast resin transformers will continue to account for virtually all of our revenues. Accordingly, our business and results of operations are dependent on the demand for this single product, thus, any decrease in the demand for this product, whether as a result of competition, technological changes, economic conditions in China, restrictions on our ability to market this product, or other factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we lose our key personnel, our ability to operate our company and our results of operations may suffer. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to hire and retain additional marketing personnel. We employ highly qualified employees but competition for qualified personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to hire or retain qualified marketing personnel. Any inability to attract and retain qualified marketing personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our growth may be slow if the demand for electric power in China does not continue. Demand for our products is linked closely to increased demand for electrical power in China. While such demand has experienced tremendous growth over the past several years, there can be no assurance that such growth will continue. Any material decline in the use of electricity in China is likely to adversely impact our business. Based on economic analysis and studies, however, we do not expect demand for electric power in China to decline in the next 10 years. If any of our current suppliers delay, interrupt, or halt supply we could be forced to obtain our raw materials at higher prices from alternative sources. The principal raw materials we require in our business are (1) cast resin, used to coat the copper coils of our transformers, (2) silicon steel, used to construct the cores of our transformers, and (3) copper foil and wire for our copper windings. Although we usually have a two or three month supply of these raw materials in our inventory and we believe that we are able to obtain our cast resin, silicon steel, and copper materials from several other companies besides our current suppliers, if we were to experience significant delays, interruptions, or reductions in our supply of cast resin, silicon steel, and copper materials, we could face increased costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Other raw materials required to manufacture our products include glass fiber and quartz powder. We maintain at least two suppliers for each of our major raw materials in order to enhance our ability to obtain an adequate supply of high quality, competitively-priced raw materials. We purchase our glass fiber and quartz powder from local suppliers in nearby regions and believe that these materials are readily available. We have never experienced any disruption in the supply of any raw material that has had a material impact on our operations, we cannot be certain however, that a disruption in supply by our raw material suppliers will not occur in the future. If such a disruption occurs and we experience a significant delay in the supply of these materials, there may be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition with other large and small transformer manufacturers may result in reduced prices and loss of market share. We may also face competition from foreign companies. The market for cast resin transformers in China is highly competitive and we expect increased competition in the future. We primarily compete with several large transformer manufacturers as well as a number of small transformer manufacturers. Most of our competitors are government-owned entities and only few of our competitors have greater name recognition and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, and marketing capabilities than we do. Our future success will largely depend on our marketing efforts and ability to expand production capacity. Although price has historically not been a major factor in competing against other cast resin transformer manufacturers, it does remain a factor in competing against oil-filled transformer manufacturers and other more traditional, less expensive transformer devices. Increased competition may result in price reductions or loss of market share, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Due to high production costs, foreign companies do not currently compete against us in the transformer market in China. There can be no assurance, however, that foreign manufacturers will not enter into joint venture arrangements or establish wholly foreign-owned enterprises, which would subject us to increased competition with foreign companies and adversely affect our results of operations. 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the transformer market in China, include, in order of significance, product reputation, product performance and safety, product quality, marketing expertise, and product price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or new competitors. Following China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, we may have additional competitors in China such as ABB, Siemens, and Alstom. If we are unable to maintain our expertise in manufacturing processes or identify new technologies as they arise we will be unable to compete successfully. The electrical transformer industry may be subject to changing technology, evolving industry standards, emerging competition and innovative product introductions. Although we are not presently aware of a transformer technology more advanced than that used in our products, there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new technologies as they arise and develop and bring new products and services to the market in a timely manner or that products, services or technologies developed by others will not render our products, services, or technologies noncompetitive, obsolete, or less marketable. Accidents involving the use of our transformers could result in injury or damage to our customers, expose us to financial liability, and adversely affect our ability to market our product. Although we have never experienced a significant accident such as a fire or an explosion resulting from the operation of our transformers and we generally believe that our transformers are safe and do not pose a significant risk of combustion, fire, or explosion, there can be no assurance that an accident, which may cause injury or damage to the user of our transformers, will not occur. Any such incident would expose us to potential claims or liabilities which may damage our reputation among potential customer, resulting in a potentially adverse effect on our ability to market our products. We may face product liability claims that may result in costly litigation and divert attention of our management. Our business exposes us to liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of potentially dangerous electrical equipment. Consistent with industry practice in China, we do not currently maintain product liability insurance on our products. Such a product liability claim may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Currently, we do not know of any such product liability suits pending against us. We may be subject to infringement claims by third parties that could subject us to financial liability or limit our product offerings, and our competitive position could be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property. We own the rights to the trademark “JST,” which is registered with the Trademark Bureau of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce in China. We believe that this trademark has significant value and is important to our marketing and expansion efforts. However, with regard to our current trademark or any future trademarks, we cannot be sure that any one or all of the following scenarios has not occurred or will not occur, any one of which could have a material adverse effect upon us: • we are unable to register other names or service marks that we may consider important; • our currently registered trademark or any future registered trademark currently does or will violate the proprietary rights of others; • our trademarks are not upheld by the Chinese government or its judicial system if challenged; • we are prevented from using our trademarks; or • because enforcing our proprietary rights or defending against the ownership claims of others may be extremely costly, we may not have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS British Virgin Islands law is less defined than the laws governing corporations organized in the United States and may provide less protection for shareholders. We were incorporated as a company in the British Virgin Islands on April 3, 1997 under the International Business Companies Act of the British Virgin Islands (the “Old Act”). Companies incorporated under the Old Act prior to 2006 were capable of voluntarily re-registering as a BVI Business Company under the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (No. 16 of 2004) (the “New Act”) during 2006, but if they did not elect to re-register under the New Act during 2006 then on January 1, 2007 they were automatically re-registered under the New Act, although certain provisions from the Old Act will continue to apply to such companies unless they disapply those grandfathering provisions. We did not voluntarily re-register under the New Act during 2006 and were automatically re-registered as a BVI Business Company on January 1, 2007 and since that date have not disapplied the grandfathering provisions. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the New Act. The New Act has provisions for shareholders’ remedies along the lines of section 459 of the UK Companies Act 1985 based on unfair prejudice, and derivative actions. Shareholders have the rights given to them under our memorandum of association (the “Memorandum”) and the articles of association (the “Articles”) and under the New Act. The New Act specifies three default rights that a share confers on a shareholder: the right to vote, the right to an equal share in any dividend paid in accordance with the New Act and the right to an equal share in any distribution of our surplus assets. We may issue shares in which these statutory rights are negated, modified or added to where expressly authorized in our Memorandum, but if not then the default rights will apply. The existing rights of our shareholders have been preserved on the automatic re-registration on January 1, 2007. Directors of British Virgin Islands corporations may act without court approval to implement reorganizations, certain mergers or consolidations, asset sales or transfers, and the dissolution of a corporation. The provisions of Part IX of the New Act reproduce similar provisions from the Old Act dealing with corporate reconstructions, specifically mergers, consolidations, sale of assets, forced redemption of minority shareholders, arrangements and provisions dealing with dissenting shareholders. These provisions give companies considerable autonomy and flexibility in effecting corporate reconstruction. There are minimum formalities and procedural hurdles, with the general requirements being written proposals approved by directors and, in some instances by the shareholders as well, and registration of those proposals with the Registrar. Apart from arrangements, none of the provisions require court approval. There is nothing in the New Act which expressly requires the directors to consider any solvency issues or to be satisfied of any solvency test in section 56 of the New Act (which applies for any distribution by a company to its shareholders, and the purchase by the company of its own shares) before carrying out the proposed reconstruction. Indeed, the New Act provides that the purchase or redemption by a company of its shares pursuant to a right of a shareholder to have his shares redeemed, or exchanged for money or other property, is not a distribution (so that the solvency test need not be considered), and it could be argued that a purchase of shares from a shareholder in a merger or consolidation is a purchase pursuant to a shareholder’s right especially when the shareholders have approved the merger or consolidation. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS The provisions for effecting a merger or consolidation are very flexible and allow shares to be cancelled, reclassified or converted into money or other assets, or into shares, debt obligations or other securities in the surviving or consolidated company. Shares of the same class can be treated differently, e.g. some shareholders can be given shares in the surviving or consolidated company, while others of the same class can be bought out, i.e. have their shares converted to cash. Risks Related to Our Chinese Operations We may be subject to the political, economic, legal and other uncertainties of China, which is a socialist state controlled by the Communist Party of China. Because we are a foreign company conducting our operations and owning assets primarily in China, our operations and assets are subject to political, economic, legal and other uncertainties which affect companies operating in China. China is a socialist state which since 1949, has been controlled by the Communist Party of China. Changes in the top political leadership of the Chinese government may have a significant impact on policy and the political and economic environment in China. Furthermore, because economic reforms and growth in China have been more successful in some provinces than in others, the continuation or increase of these economic disparities could affect political or social stability. China is considered to be a high risk nation for business and investment in the Asian region. Although China recently has permitted greater provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activity, the government of China has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every aspect of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Therefore, government action in the future, including any decision by the Chinese government not to continue to support the economic reform program that it commenced in the late 1970‘s and the possible return of China to the more centrally-planned economy that existed prior to the economic reforms, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China and on our operations. China’s economic reform plan was designed to bring into China foreign investment capital and technological advancements. The result of these reforms has been a move towards a more mixed economy and away from a more centrally-planned economy. The process of shifting more responsibility for various aspects of economic enterprise to local management and regional authorities continues, even though the system of Chinese socialism still involves considerable influence by the central government in economic areas of production and marketing. The economy of China differs from most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), in structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation, and balance of payments position. China’s economy is managed in part through a series of five-year economic and social development plans, each “Five-Year Plan” is formulated by the State Council and approved by the National People’s Congress and sets the overall agricultural, industrial, financial and other economic and social development targets. In implementing each Five-Year Plan, the State Planning Commission, a commission directly under the State Council, establishes annual production and development targets, formulates and supervises the implementation of annual plans designed to achieve those targets, and approves major economic projects. Although the majority of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese Government, in the past several years the Chinese Government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization, the utilization of market forces in the development of 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS the Chinese economy, and the encouragement of private economic activity. Such economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual and we may not be able to capitalize on all such reforms. Further, there can be no assurance that the Chinese Government will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time or that business operations in China would not become subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of investments in China. Since 1978, the Chinese Government has been reforming its economic systems. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Although reforms to China’s economic system have not adversely impacted our operations in the past and are not expected to adversely impact our operations in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that the reforms to China’s economic system will continue or that we will not be adversely affected by changes in the China’s political, economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese Government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretations thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. Our operating results may also be significantly affected by the inadequate development of an infrastructure for power plants and the potential unavailability of adequate power and water supplies, transportation, satisfactory roads, communications abilities and raw materials and parts. The Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, but such growth has been uneven among various geographical regions and sectors of the economy. The Chinese Government implemented various policies from time to time, including, but not limited to, the periods from 1989 to 1991and again commencing in 1993, to restrain the rate of economic growth, control inflation and otherwise regulate economic expansion. Although we do not expect such policies to impact our operations, we may benefit from these types of policies or, on the other hand, more severe measures or other actions by the Chinese Government not currently expected could decrease demand for our products and adversely affect our earnings. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had in general, a positive effect on the economic development of China, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain and the uncertainty may decrease the attractiveness of our company as an investment, which may in turn adversely affect our stock price. Changes in China’s present policy of economic reform and economic protection for foreign investment enterprises could harm our operating results. As part of its economic reforms, China has designated certain areas as Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”) or Economic and Technological Development Zones (“EDZs”). Foreign investment enterprises in these areas generally benefit from greater economic autonomy and advantageous tax treatment in China. The Chinese government has designated Hainan Province, where we maintain our principal executive offices and manufacturing facilities, as a SEZ. We are currently building a second manufacturing facility in an EDZ located in the city of Wuhan in Hubei Province. Although we are not aware of any pending or proposed changes in the policies or laws governing SEZs or EDZs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, there can be no assurance that such changes will not occur. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are subject to government regulation and our operating results could be affected by changes in those regulations. Our operations and assets in China are subject to significant political uncertainty. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by policy changes made by the Chinese government to any of the following: • laws and regulations, or their interpretation and enforcement thereof, • confiscatory or increased taxation, • restrictions on currency conversion and currency devaluations, • imports, import duties, and sources of supply, or • the expropriation of private enterprise. Under its current governmental leadership, China has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. We can provide no assurance that the Chinese government will continue to pursue these policies, that these policies will be successful if pursued or will not be significantly altered without notice, or that business operations would not become subject to the risk of nationalization, which could result in the total loss of any investment in China. Recent developments in Chinese law, however, may reduce the risk of nationalization. The National People’s Congress, China’s parliament, adopted a new property law in March 2007 stipulating that “the property of the state, the collective, the individual and other obliges is protected by law, and no units or individuals may infringe upon it.” This is the first time that equal protection of state and private properties has been enshrined in Chinese law and is a significant step in the country’s efforts to move to a market economy. The new property law is due to take effect on October 1, 2007. Under the Chinese government’s program of privatizing many state-owned enterprises, the Chinese government has attempted to grow its revenues by increased tax collection. Currently, the income tax rate for domestic companies in China is 33% while it is 15% for foreign funded companies. China offers preferential tax treatment to foreign funded companies as a means to attract foreign direct investment. There has been a nationwide debate on whether, given its current state of development, China should continue to offer preferential tax treatment to foreign funded companies. Experts and domestic companies complained that the preferential tax treatment does not accord to WTO’s principles, unfairly discriminates against local firms that compete with foreign funded companies, and results in a reduction of China’s tax revenues. After much debate, the National People’s Congress, China’s parliament, promulgated on March 16, 2007 a new Corporate Income Tax Law that sets a unified corporate income tax rate of 25% applicable to both domestic and foreign funded Companies. The new tax law is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2008. The National People’s Congress has delegated rulemaking authority to the State Council and the State Administration of Taxation. Our headquarters and primary manufacturing facility are located in Hainan province, which has been designated a SEZ by the Chinese government. Our second manufacturing facility is being built in an EDZ in Wuhan, China. We enjoy preferential tax treatment in both Hainan and Wuhan. Since neither the State Council nor the State Administration of Taxation has published regulations implementing the new tax law, it is not clear at this time whether and how the new tax law would apply to foreign funded companies operating out of SEZs or EDZs. Although we expect the Chinese government to continue to offer preferential tax treatment to foreign funded companies operating out of SEZs and EDZs, we cannot assure that such policies would continue. As a result of the new tax law, we may be subject to increased taxation which could adversely affect our profitability. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our economic development in China may also be limited by the following: • governmental imposition of restrictive measures intended to reduce inflation, increase taxes, or reform unprofitable state-owned enterprises, • the inadequate development of China's infrastructure, • the unavailability of adequate power, water supplies, raw materials, and parts, and • limited transportation and communications capabilities. The Chinese government regulates the import into China of various raw materials and also taxes some types of imported capital equipment, which may affect our operations. The approval of imports by the Chinese government is based to some extent on the lack of qualified domestically-produced products and on its strategic plans for the development of local Chinese industries. We can provide no assurance that China’s policies will continue to allow raw materials needed by our operations to be imported into China or will not impose import fees, which may raise the cost of raw materials or capital equipment used in our operations. The imposition of any of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. China’s entrance in the World Trade Organization may result in increased competition from international companies. Currently, a significant portion of China’s economic activity is export-driven and, therefore, is affected by developments in the economies of China’s principal trading partners, including the U.S. On November 11, 2001, China signed an agreement to become a member of the World Trade Organization (the “WTO”), the international body that sets most trade rules, further integrating China into the global economy and significantly reducing the barriers to international commerce. China’s membership in the WTO became effective on December 11, 2001. China has agreed upon its accession to the WTO to reduce tariffs and non-tariff barriers, remove investment restrictions, provide trading and distribution rights for foreign firms, and opened various service sectors to foreign competition. To date, China fulfilled all the commitments it made for China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) and improved economic systems, laws, regulations and policies related to doing business with other countries. China’s accession to the WTO may favorably affect our business in that reduced market barriers and an increasingly transparent investment environment will facilitate increased investment opportunities in China, while tariff rate reductions and other enhancements will enable us to develop better investment strategies and attract investment capital. In addition, the WTO’s dispute settlement mechanism provides a credible and effective tool to enforce member’s commercial rights. Furthermore, with China’s entry into the WTO, it is believed that China will reform relevant laws on foreign investment to conform to the common practices of a market economy. However, these factors may also increase the number of foreign competitors and thus intensify competition in the transformer industry in China, which may in turn decrease our market share and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Despite continued economic reforms, the economic conditions in China may adversely affect our operations. China has operated a centrally-planned economy since 1949. Since 1978, China has implemented a series of economic reform programs in an effort to revitalize its economy and improve living standards, including the implementation of policies designed to attract foreign investment and technology. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), China’s GDP in 2006 reached 20.94 trillion Yuan (2.6816 trillion US dollars), an increase of 10.7 percent over the previous year. Of this total, the added value of primary industry rose 5 percent to 2.47 trillion Yuan (290.70 billion US dollars), that of secondary and tertiary industries rose 12.5 and 10.3 percent to 10.2004 trillion Yuan (1.311 trillion US dollars) and 8.2703 trillion Yuan (1.059 trillion US dollars) respectively. According to the statistics released by Customs General Administration, the total value of imports and exports in 2006 reached 1.76 trillion US dollars, up 23.8 percent over the previous year. Of this total, the value of exports was 969.1 billion US dollars, up 27.2 percent, and the value of imports was 791.6 billion US dollars, up 20 percent. China had a trade surplus of 75.5 billion US dollars. There is no assurance that the Chinese economy will continue to grow at such rates and if it fails to do so our business may be adversely affected. Despite recent reforms, we may be adversely affected by China’s unsophisticated legal system and it may be difficult to enforce our legal rights under Chinese law and for third parties to enforce the laws of the United States or any other state in China. China’s legal system is a civil law system, which is based on written statutes and legal cases having little precedential value. China does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies may be subject to considerable discretion in individual cases. As legal systems in China develop, we, like other foreign business entities, may be adversely affected by new laws, changes to existing laws (or new interpretations of the laws) and preemption of provincial or local laws by national laws. In addition, in circumstances where adequate laws do exist, it still may not be possible for us to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of those legal rights under Chinese law. Moreover, because certain directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon these non-residents in the United States or to enforce United States judgments against them in China’s courts. There is uncertainty as to whether China’s courts would enforce: • Judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or these non-resident directors and officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or • In original actions brought in the Republic of China, liabilities against us or these non-resident directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Also, since a majority or our assets are located in China, it may be difficult for an investor who obtains a judgment in the United States or another state to enforce such foreign judgment in China. Such judgment may be further limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. Our facilities are subject to Chinese environmental regulations that expose us to potential liability. Environmental protection in China is regulated in accordance with the Environmental Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China, which became effective on December 26, 1989. This law sets national standards for environmental quality and monitoring as well as for the utilization of natural resources and the reduction of pollution. As a manufacturer, we are subject to annual inspections. We have passed our most recent inspection and believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws. In September 2000, we also obtained ISO 14001 certification from the Environmental Management Certification Center for the Machinery Industry. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS The expansion of our operations internationally may be adversely affected by Chinese economic, political, legal and other uncertainties. Although we sell products to customers based principally in China, we are doing business in the U.S. and seek to do business in other countries as well. In the future, our international operations and sales may be affected by the following risks, which may adversely affect Chinese companies doing business internationally: • political and economic risks, including political instability, • currency controls and exchange rate fluctuations, • changes in import/export regulations, tariff and freight rates, and • various forms of protectionist trade legislation which currently exist or have been proposed in some foreign countries. We receive our revenues in Renminbi, which experiences volatility in its exchange rate to certain foreign currencies and may adversely affect our financial performance. We receive almost all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into foreign currencies. However, we are required to meet foreign currency obligations, such as for future purchases of certain equipment and raw materials from Germany. The Chinese government imposes control over our foreign currency reserves in part through direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency and through restrictions on foreign imports. Effective January 1, 1994, pursuant to the Notice of the People’s Bank of China Concerning Further Reform of the Foreign Currency Control System (“PBOC Notice”), the conversion of Renminbi into Hong Kong and United States dollars must be based on rates set by the PBOC. Such rates are set daily, based on the previous day’s Chinese interbank foreign exchange market rate with reference to current exchange rates on the world financial markets or the “PBOC Rate.” On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government revalued the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and introduced a basket of currencies system to determine the exchange rate, which is based on the interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates of a basket of currencies in the world financial markets. As a result of adopting a flexible exchange rate, China’s financial sector is now more responsive to fluctuations in the international currency market. The Renminbi/US Dollar exchange rate has climbed steadily since. As of December 31, 2006, the exchange rate was 7.81 RMB to 1 US dollar. Effective as of December 1, 1996, Renminbi has become fully convertible for all current account transactions. Foreign exchange, which is required for current account transactions, can be bought freely at authorized Chinese banks, so long as the procedural requirements prescribed by law are met. Payment of dividends to foreign investors holding equity interests in Chinese companies, including Foreign Investment Enterprises, is considered a current account transaction. At the same time, Chinese companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized Chinese banks. Purchase of foreign currency for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our financial performance because of our foreign currency denominated liabilities and may materially adversely affect the value, translated or converted as applicable into United States dollars, of our net fixed assets, our earnings and our declared dividends. We currently do not engage in any hedging activities in order to minimize the effect of exchange rate risks. Future inflation in China may inhibit economic activity in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and China 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS has experienced deflation as low as minus 2.2%. These factors have led the Chinese government to adopt, from time to time, various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby adversely affect the market for our products. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We may experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect your investment, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of other similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • additions or departures of key personnel; • any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; and • future sales of common stock. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of our performance. 