ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have incurred losses and there is no assurance that we will turn profitable in the future. We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We incurred net losses of approximately $1.0 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and approximately $0.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Our inability to become profitable may force us to curtail or temporarily discontinue our product development programs and our day-to-day operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that profitability, if achieved, can be sustained on an ongoing basis. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $138.6 million. We may continue to generate net losses for the foreseeable future and cannot predict when we will achieve profitability, if ever. The loss of our third-party contract manufacturers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We outsource production of our products to third-party contract manufacturers. Our manufacturers' ability to complete orders on-time while maintaining high product quality is important to our operational success. The manufacturers' failure to live up to the production standards might cause brand equity damage and legal liability exposure. The loss of any of our contract manufacturers could significantly impact our ability to produce our products for an indefinite period of time. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing production can be a lengthy and expensive process. If we are required to change our contract manufacturer, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer, or if our contract manufacturer experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, component parts shortages or quality control problems in its manufacturing operations, shipment of our products to our customers could be delayed res ulting in loss of revenues and our competitive position and relationship with customers could be harmed. 6 If we are unable to keep pace with technological changes in our industry, our products may become obsolete or fail to achieve market acceptance. Our products are subject to a high degree of technological change, frequent new product introductions, evolving industry standards and changes in customer demands. The introduction of competitive products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products to meet diverse and evolving customer requirements and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We are currently developing new products and enhancements to our existing products. The development of new products or enhanced versions of existing products entails significant technical risks. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or that new products will respond to technological change or evolving industry standards, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, implementation and marketing of these products and enhancements, or that any new products and product enhancements we may introduce will achieve market acceptance. If we are not able to successfully develop and market new and enhanced products and services, our business and results of operations will be harmed. We face intense competition in our business, and we may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. The market for our products is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In order to compete in the market place, our products must provide superior technology at competitive prices. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and have a larger installed base of customers. Some of these competitors also have extensive direct and indirect channels of distribution. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we are able to. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves with prospective customers. Some of our competitors may also combine with, or be acquired by other parties, providing them with additional resources with which to compete. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management, sales and other personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We believe our future success will also depend, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales and other personnel, and on the ability of management to operate effectively, both individually and as a group, in geographically disparate locations. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell, our products. 7 We may engage in future mergers and strategic investments that dilute the ownership percentage of our stockholders and would require us to use cash, incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review opportunities to buy or invest in other businesses or technologies that we believe would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we buy or invest in other businesses, products or technologies in the future, we could: · incur significant unplanned expenses and personnel costs; · issue stock, or assume stock option plans that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership; · use cash, which may result in a reduction of our liquidity; · incur debt; · assume liabilities; and · spend resources on unconsummated transactions. Our failure to successfully integrate L Q Corporation’s business and operations in a timely manner may adversely affect our combined businesses’ future results. We believe that our July 2007 merger with L Q Corporation will result in certain benefits, including certain cost synergies and operational efficiencies. However, our ability to realize these anticipated benefits depends on successfully combining our two businesses. The combined businesses may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger for a variety of reasons, including the following: • revenue attrition in excess of anticipated levels; • failure of customers to accept new products or to continue as customers of the combined businesses; • failure to successfully manage relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, end-users, distributors and suppliers; • failure to qualify the combined businesses’ products with OEM customers on a timely basis or at all; • failure to successfully develop interoperability between the products of the two companies; • failure to leverage the increased scale of the combined businesses quickly and effectively; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; • the loss of key employees; • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the combined businesses; and • failure to combine product offerings and product lines quickly and effectively. While the actual integration has commenced and is continuing, there still may be additional and unforeseen expenses or delays. If we are not able to successfully integrate L Q Corporation’s business and operations, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. General customer uncertainty related to our July 2007 merger with L Q Corporation could harm our post-merger business. 8 Our existing customers and the customers we obtained as of the Merger may, in response to uncertainty with respect to the merger, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Alternatively, customers may purchase a competitor’s product because of such uncertainty. Further, customer concerns about changes or delays in our product roadmap may negatively affect customer purchasing decisions. Customers could also be reluctant to purchase our products and services due to uncertainty about the direction of their technology, products and services, and willingness to support and service existing products which may be discontinued. OEMs, resellers, distributors and other third parties of strategic importance may delay or refuse to certify, support or promote our technology, products and services due to uncertainty created by the merger. If our customers delay or defer purchasing decisions, or choose to purchase from a competitor, our revenues could materially decline or any anticipated increases in revenue could be lower than expected. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future mergers and strategic investments, and integration of mergers may disrupt our business and management. We have in the past and may in the future acquire or make strategic investments in additional companies, products or technologies. Most recently, we merged with L Q Corporation. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these or any other mergers or strategic investments, which involve numerous risks, including: · problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; · unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; · diversion of management's attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering into markets in which we have limited, or no prior experience; · failure to successfully manage additional remote locations, including the additional infrastructure and resources necessary to support and integrate such locations; · incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; · incurrence of merger-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; · potential write-down of goodwill and/or acquired intangible assets, which are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis, and could significantly impact our operating results; · inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; and · potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. If we are not able to successfully integrate businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we acquire, or to realize expected benefits of our mergers or strategic investments, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be considered “pennystock”, which could limit the market for our common stock and could adversely affect the ability of our stockholders to resell our common stock. 9 Our common stock may constitute "penny stock" (as defined in Rule 3a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act) if it fails to meet certain criteria set forth in such Rule. Various practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell "penny stocks" to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transactions prior to sale. Consequently, if our common stock were to become "penny stock," then the Rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which could further affect the liquidity of the common stock. Our future operating expenses may be adversely affected by changes in our stock price. A portion of our outstanding stock options are subject to variable accounting. Under variable accounting, we are required to remeasure the value of the options, and the corresponding compensation expense, at the end of each reporting period until the option is exercised, cancelled or expires unexercised. As a result, the stock-based compensation expense we recognize in any given period can vary substantially due to changes in the market value of our common stock. Volatility associated with stock price movements has resulted in compensation benefits when our stock price has declined and compensation expense when our stock price has increased. We are unable to predict the future market value of our common stock and therefore are unable to predict the compensation expense or benefit that we will record in future periods. We have been named as a party to several class action lawsuits which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and our wholly owned subsidiary, L Q Corporation, are defendants in a certain class action lawsuit entitled “In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, 21 MC 92 (SAS)” filed by individual shareholders in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against certain of our former officers and directors, and various of the underwriters in our initial public offering and secondary offering. The expense of defending this litigation may be significant. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and defending the Company and its subsidiary, L Q Corporation may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to experience volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect stockholders' investments. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: · macroeconomic conditions; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; · announcements of financial results by us or other security companies; · announcements by us, our competitors, customers, or similar businesses of significant technical innovations, contracts, mergers, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · comments made by third-party market observers that may impact investment decisions of investors; · additions or departures of key personnel; · sales of our common stock or convertible securities; · incurring debt; and · other risk factors detailed in this section. 10 In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of how the business performs. The availability and pricing of component parts may adversely affect production and profitability. Our ability to grow earnings will be affected by increases in the cost of component parts, including electronic components and circuit boards. We may not be able to offset fully the effects of higher component parts through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. We rely on licenses with third parties to license software code that is an integral part of our business’s software solution and if we would need to seek alternate licenses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We license certain software code from third parties that is an integral part of our software solution. In particular, we obtain from third party licensors certain software code included in our software solution, and the software for our badging products. We would need to seek alternative licensors for the software code if any of the third party licensors terminate or decides not to renew a license. If any of these third party licensors become unable to or refuses to license its code, it could interrupt and delay the development, design and delivery of the Pinnacle software solution and related products. Any such disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. Cyclical industry and economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be affected adversely by the general cyclical pattern of the industries in which we operates. For example, demand for our products and services is significantly affected by levels of commercial construction and consumer and business discretionary spending. The demand patterns of these markets could impact the revenues and margins in this business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 