RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Company If We Are Unable to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, We Will Not Have Sufficient Liquidity to Repay Our Existing Obligations We are currently in the process of obtaining financing in order to convert the Termination Amounts owing to Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and JP Morgan Chase under the foreign exchange derivative instruments into a secured term loan. Pursuant to a Term Sheet we entered into on March 19, 2009, Gruma and the aforementioned Derivative Counterparties have agreed to negotiate in good faith to convert U.S. $668.3 million owing to the Derivative Counterparties into a secured term loan within 120 days following March 23, 2009. As a condition of the Financing, the Company intends to terminate its Remaining Derivatives and also intends to enter into the Credit Agreement Amendments. Pursuant to the Term Sheet, we are required to pay interest on the Termination Amount at the rate of 1 month LIBOR + 1% for the first six weeks following March 23, 2009, and LIBOR + 2.875% thereafter. Following the expiration of the 120-day period contemplated by the Term Sheet, we will be required to pay default interest on the Termination Amount at the rate of 2% + LIBOR + 2.875%. If Gruma, the Derivative Counterparties, the Remaining Derivative Counterparties, and its creditors under the 2005 Facility and the 2008 Peso Facility fail to enter into an agreement within the aforementioned 120-day period, the Termination Amount of U.S. $668.3 million together with interest accrued will become immediately due and payable. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We do not currently have sufficient liquidity to repay the U.S. $668.3 million obligation owing to the Derivative Counterparties. Due to our lack of liquidity, our ability to repay or service our existing financial obligations could depend upon our ability to enter into an agreement with the aforementioned creditors and counterparties within the 120-day period. If we are unable to enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments within the designated period, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our existing financial obligations, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our Business May Be Adversely Impacted by Risks Related to Our Currency Derivatives Trading Activities From time to time, we enter into currency derivative transactions pursuant to the Company’s risk management policy that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Rate Risk.” We are exposed to potential changes in the value of our derivative instruments primarily caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations may result from changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, and acts of war or terrorism. We account for these derivative transactions using the mark-to-market accounting method. The mark-to-market value of these derivatives instruments may increase or decrease prior to the settlement date of the instruments. We may incur unrealized losses as a result of the factors described above. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If We Are Unable to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, We Face a Risk of Reorganization-Related Proceedings If we are unable to enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments within the 120-day period following March 23, 2009, we may be unable to meet our payment obligations owing to the Derivative Counterparties and our payment obligations owing to some or all of our existing creditors as these become due. A default under any of our existing debt obligations for borrowed money could result in acceleration of the amounts owing thereunder and in a cross-default under the indenture governing our perpetual bonds. As a result of such acceleration or cross-default, one or more of our creditors could take legal action against us, including filing an 12 Table of Contents involuntary concurso mercantil proceeding in Mexico, and an involuntary proceeding against us in the United States under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Further, we may choose to institute a voluntary reorganization proceeding. For additional information concerning our liquidity position, see “—If We Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, our Substantial Indebtedness could Adversely Affect our Business and, Consequently, our Ability to Pay Interest and Repay our Indebtedness.” If any reorganization proceedings were to be instituted in Mexico and the United States, we could not predict the duration thereof or the ability of holders of existing notes to influence the outcome of such proceedings. A reorganization proceeding is likely to result in significant changes to our existing obligations, including the Perpetual Bond, which could include the cancellation or rescheduling of all or part of those obligations. During the pendency of any such proceeding, our ability to operate or manage our business, to retain employees, to maintain existing or create new client relationships, to continue to collect payments for our services or to obtain any type of funding or financing would likely be materially adversely affected. Uncertainties Relating to the Successful Consummation of the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments Raise Substantial Doubt About our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. However, our independent auditors have stated in their most recent report that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern will be dependent upon the successful negotiation of the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, our ability to extend or refinance our existing financial obligations, and/or our ability to sell additional assets or obtain additional financing to meet our financial obligations, if necessary. There can be no assurance that the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments will be successfully consummated. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If We Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, our Substantial Indebtedness could Adversely Affect our Business and, Consequently, our Ability to Pay Interest and Repay our Indebtedness If we are able to successfully enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments within the 120-day period following March 23, 2009, we anticipate having a significant amount of indebtedness, which will require significant debt service. We do not anticipate that the aggregate amount of our interest expense and other costs associated with our debt may exceed our operating income in 2009. Our significant debt service requirements may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations, make acquisitions and capital expenditures, compete effectively against better-capitalized competitors and withstand downturns in our business. Our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, increases in prices of raw materials, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and market volatility. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and refinance our indebtedness when due depends on, and is subject to, several factors, including our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, the availability of financing in the Mexican and international banking and capital markets, and our ability to sell assets and operating improvements. The expected significant increase in our level of debt could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including but not limited to, the following: · because we would have to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, we would have less cash available for other purposes including the payment of dividends; · our ability to obtain additional debt financing could be limited and the terms on which such financing is obtained could be negatively affected; and 13 Table of Contents · we could be placed at a competitive disadvantage by our limited flexibility to react to changes in the industry and economic conditions since our financial resources would be dedicated to paying interest and principal on our debt instead of expanding or improving our business. As a result, we could lose market share and experience lower sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We anticipate that, pursuant to the documentation regarding the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, we may not be able to borrow additional indebtedness unless, at the time of incurrence, we satisfy certain financial covenants or other conditions. As of June 12, 2009, based upon our financial condition, we anticipate that the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments would prohibit us from incurring any additional debt, other than to refinance any existing indebtedness, and certain other limited permitted debt exceptions. See also “—If we Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, We May Not Be Able to Comply with Covenants in the Debt Instruments Governing a Substantial Portion of our Indebtedness”, “—If We Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, We Expect to Pay Interest and Principal on our Dollar-Denominated Debt with Revenues Generated in Pesos or other Currencies, as We Will Not Generate Sufficient Revenue in Dollars from our Operations” and “If We Are Able to Successfully Amend the Terms of our Indebtedness, We May Be Adversely Affected by Increases in Interest Rates.” If We Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, We May Not Be Able to Comply with Covenants in the Debt Instruments Governing a Substantial Portion of our Indebtedness We anticipate that, pursuant to the documentation regarding the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, we would be required to comply with certain financial covenants and other covenants including limitations on our ability to pay dividends, make certain investments, merge or consolidate with other companies, sell or pledge assets and incur additional indebtedness. The restrictions on our debt instruments could: · limit our flexibility to adjust to changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; · limit our ability to access cash from our subsidiaries and, thus, repay our debt or satisfy other holding company obligations; and · limit our ability to fund future operations, acquisitions or meet extraordinary capital needs. If We Are Able to Successfully Consummate the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, we Expect to Pay Interest and Principal on our Dollar-Denominated Debt with Revenues Generated in Pesos or other Currencies, as We Will Not Generate Sufficient Revenue in Dollars from our Operations If we are able to successfully enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments within the 120-day period following March 23, 2009, we anticipate having approximately 81% of our outstanding debt denominated in dollars as of such date. This debt will have to be serviced by funds generated from sales by our subsidiaries. We do not generate sufficient revenues in dollars from our operations to service the entire amount of our expected dollar denominated debt. Consequently, we anticipate having to use revenues generated in pesos or other currencies to service our dollar denominated debt. A devaluation of the peso against the dollar could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Even though we intend to mitigate this risk with foreign currency hedges, we are exposed to such foreign currency exchange fluctuations and we cannot assure you that market hedges will be available at favorable terms to us, if at all. Fluctuations in exchange rates may result from changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, and acts of war or terrorism. Extreme exchange rate volatility in the financial markets during the last two quarters of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 resulted in significant fluctuations in the value of Gruma’s foreign currency derivative instruments. If We Are Able to Successfully Amend the Terms of our Indebtedness, We May be Adversely Affected by Increases in Interest Rates 14 Table of Contents Interest rate risk exists primarily with respect to our floating-rate peso denominated debt, which generally bears interest based on the Mexican equilibrium interbank interest rate, which we refer to as the “TIIE.” In addition, if we are able to successfully enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, we anticipate having additional interest rate risk with respect to floating-rate dollar-denominated debt, which would generally bear interest based on the London interbank offered rate, which we refer to as “LIBOR.” If we are able to successfully enter into the Financing and the Credit Agreement Amendments, we anticipate having significant exposure to exchange rate fluctuation owing to our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt. As a result, if the TIIE or LIBOR rates increase significantly, our ability to service our debt may be adversely affected. Downgrades of Our Debt May Increase Our Financing Costs or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us or Our Stock Price Our long-term corporate credit rating and our senior unsecured perpetual bond are rated “B+” with negative implication by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“Standard & Poor’s”). Our Foreign Currency Long-Term Issuer Default Rating and our Local Currency Long-Term Issuer Default Rating are rated “B+” by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”). Our U.S.$300 million perpetual bond is rated “BB-” by Fitch Ratings. These ratings reflect the leveraging impact on Gruma’s capital structure from the termination of Gruma’s foreign exchange derivative positions and the subsequent conversion of the realized losses into debt. On February 1, 2008, Standard & Poor’s placed our long-term corporate credit rating and our senior unsecured perpetual bond on Credit Watch with negative implication. On March 12, 2008, Standard & Poor’s removed the Credit Watch with negative implication based on the company’s intention to use part of the proceeds of the proposed May 2008 rights offering to repay debt, which improved our debt ratios. On October 13, 2008, Standard and Poor’s reduced the credit rating from “BBB-” to “BB”, and placed them on Credit Watch with negative implications. On November 11, 2008 Standard and Poor’s reduced the rating again from “BB” to “B+” continuing the Credit Watch with negative implications. We continue to have a B+ rating with negative implications. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” On October 13, 2008 Fitch reduced the ratings to “BB+” from “BBB-” while placing Gruma on Rating Watch Negative. On April 2, 2009 Fitch reduced its ratings again and removed all ratings from Rating Watch Negative to Stable. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may experience future declines in our credit ratings, with attendant consequences. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-term debt ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the cost of and/or limit the availability of unsecured financing, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital when necessary. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Fluctuations in the Cost and Availability of Corn, Wheat and Wheat Flour May Affect Our Financial Performance Our financial performance may be affected by the price and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour as each raw material represented 29%, 18% and 8%, respectively, of our cost of sales in 2008. Mexican and world markets have experienced periods of either over-supply or shortage of corn and wheat, some of which have caused adverse effects on our results of operations. In recent years, there has been substantial volatility and increases in the price of corn, partly due to the demand for corn-based ethanol in the U.S., which increased our cost of corn and negatively affected our financial condition and results of operation. However, during 2008 prices of corn and wheat declined significantly from their peak in 2007. We believe that the demand for corn will increase over the long term in connection with the manufacture of corn-based ethanol. Also, there have been dramatic increases in the price of wheat driven by negative weather conditions in certain regions of the world and increased demand worldwide, especially from emerging countries. To manage these price risks, we regularly monitor our risk tolerance and evaluate the possibility of using derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. We currently hedge against fluctuations in the costs of corn and wheat using futures and options contracts, but remain exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to the financial instruments. In addition, if corn or wheat prices decrease below the levels specified in our various hedging agreements, we would lose the value of a decline in these prices. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, because of this volatility and price variations, we may not always be able to pass along our increased costs to our customers in the form of price increases. We cannot always predict whether or when shortages or over-supply of corn and wheat will occur. In addition, future Mexican or other countries’ governmental actions could affect the price and availability of corn and wheat. Any adverse developments in domestic and international corn and wheat markets could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Increases in the Cost of Energy Could Affect Our Profitability We use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our corn and wheat flour mills and processing ovens for the manufacture of tortillas and related products at our major domestic and international facilities. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. The cost of energy sources may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, or other unforeseen circumstances. An increase in the price of fuel and other energy sources would increase our operating costs and, therefore, could affect our profitability. The Presence of Genetically Modified Corn in Our Products, Which is Not Approved for Human Consumption, May Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations As we do not grow our own corn, we are required to buy it from various producers in the United States, Mexico and elsewhere. Although we only buy corn from farmers and grain elevators who agree to supply us with approved varieties of corn and we have developed a protocol in all our operations with the exception of Venezuela to test and monitor our corn for certain strains of bacteria and chemicals that have not been approved for human consumption, we may unwittingly buy genetically modified corn that is not approved for human consumption, and use such raw materials in the manufacture of our products. This may result in costly recalls and subject us to lawsuits which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. In the past, various claims have been alleged, mostly in the United States and the European Union, that genetically modified foods are unsafe for human consumption, pose risks of damage to the environment and create legal, social and ethical dilemmas. Some countries, particularly in the European Union, as well as Australia and some countries in Asia, have instituted a partial limitation on the import of grain produced from genetically modified seeds. Some countries have imposed labeling requirements and traceability obligations on genetically modified agricultural and food products, which may affect the acceptance of these products. To the extent that we may unknowingly buy or may be perceived to be a seller of products manufactured with genetically modified corn not approved for human consumption, this may have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Regulatory Developments May Adversely Affect Our Business We are subject to regulation in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are health, environmental, labor, taxation and antitrust. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Further changes in current regulations may result in an increase in compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Economic and Legal Risks Associated with a Global Business May Affect Our International Operations We conduct our business in many countries and anticipate that revenues from our international operations will account for a significant portion of our future revenues. There are risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: · general political and economic instability in international markets; · limitations in the repatriation of our assets, including cash; · expropriation of our international assets; 16 Table of Contents · varying prices and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour and the cost and practicality of hedging such fluctuations under current market conditions; · different liability standards and legal systems; · recent developments in the international credit markets, which could affect capital availability or cost, and could restrict our ability to obtain financing or refinance our existing indebtedness at favorable terms, if at all; and · intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our international rights to the same extent as the laws of Mexico. In addition, we have recently expanded our operations to China, Malaysia, Australia and England. Our presence in these and other markets could present us with new and unanticipated operational challenges. For example, we may encounter labor restrictions or shortages and currency conversion obstacles, or be required to comply with stringent local governmental and environmental regulations. Any of these factors could increase our operating expenses and decrease our profitability. We Face Risks Related to Health Epidemics and Other Outbreaks Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Influenza A(H1N1) or another pandemic or outbreak. In April 2009, an outbreak of Influenza A(H1N1) occurred in Mexico, United States and Canada spreading to over 74 countries worldwide, including the countries where we operate our business. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of avian flu, SARS, Influenza A(H1N1) or other adverse public health developments in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our facilities, which could disrupt our operations, and a general economic slowdown. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to Mexico Our Business and Operations May Be Adversely Affected by the Current Global Economic Crisis The recent global economic crisis is adversely affecting the economy in the United States and many other parts of the world, including Mexico. The Mexican economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate, and the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global economic crisis will continue and how much of an impact it will have on the global economy in general, or the Mexican economy in particular, and whether slowing economic growth in Mexico could result in our customers’ reducing their spending. As a result, we may need to lower the prices of certain of our products and services in order to maintain the attractiveness of our products and services, which could lead to reduced turnover and profit. If economic conditions do not improve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The adverse impact of this downturn on some of our customers may lead to a further decline in demand for our products. If this were to occur, it could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition and lead to a drop in the trading price of our shares. Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico We are a Mexican company with 38% of our consolidated assets located in Mexico and 29% of our consolidated net sales derived from our Mexican operations as of December 31, 2008. As a result, Mexican economic conditions could impact our results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced exchange rate instability and devaluation as well as high levels of inflation, domestic interest rates, unemployment, negative economic growth and reduced consumer purchasing power. These events resulted in limited liquidity for the Mexican government and local corporations. Civil and political unrest in Venezuela or elsewhere could also negatively impact the Mexican economy. See “— 17 Table of Contents Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of our Securities and Our Results of Operations.” Mexico has experienced a prolonged period of slow growth since 2001, primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. The Mexican economy grew by 4.4% in 2004, by 3.0% in 2005, by 4.8% in 2006 and by 3.3% in 2007. For 2008, the Mexican economy grew by 1.3%. In the first quarter of 2009, the Mexican economy contracted 8.2% . Developments and trends in the world economy affecting Mexico may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent months there has been a downturn in economic conditions worldwide, including Mexico. The Mexican economy is tightly connected to the U.S. economy through international trade (approximately 85 percent of Mexican exports go to the United States), international remittances (billions of dollars from Mexican workers in the United States are the country’s second-largest source of foreign exchange), foreign direct investment (approximately 50 percent of Mexican foreign direct investment comes from U.S.-based investors), and financial markets (the U.S. and Mexican financial systems are highly integrated). As the U.S. economy contracts, U.S. citizens consume fewer Mexican imports, Mexican workers in the United States send less money to Mexico, U.S. firms with businesses in Mexico make fewer investments, U.S.-owned banks in Mexico make fewer loans, and the quality of U.S. financial assets held in Mexico deteriorates. Moreover, the collapse in confidence in the U.S. economy may spread to other economies closely connected to it, including Mexico’s. The result may be a potentially deep and protracted recession in Mexico. If the Mexican economy falls into a deep and protracted recession, or if inflation and interest rates increase, consumer purchasing power may decrease and, as a result, demand for our products may decrease. In addition, a recession could affect our operations to the extent we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Government Policies in Mexico The Mexican government has exerted, and continues to exert, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities. Governmental policies have negatively affected our sales of corn flour in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Mexican congressional elections are scheduled for July 5, 2009. No political party in Mexico has a majority in the Congress or Senate. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the potential lack of alignment between the legislature and the President and any changes that result from the congressional elections could result in instability or deadlock, and prevent the timely implementation of political and economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business. Until 2007 we depended on corn import permits to ensure an adequate supply of corn in low-corn producing regions of Mexico. Commencing on January 1, 2008 pursuant to the NAFTA agreement, the import of grains, including corn, no longer requires import permits. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that the Mexican government will continue to comply with the terms of the NAFTA agreement, nor take actions that could adversely affect us. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” The Mexican government supports the commercialization of corn for Mexican corn growers through the Agricultural Incentives and Services Agency (Apoyos y Servicios a la Comercialización Agropecuaria, or ASERCA). To the extent that this or other similar programs are cancelled by the Mexican government, we may be required to incur additional costs in purchasing corn for our operations, and therefore we may need to increase the prices of our products to reflect such additional costs. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” The Mexican government created a program to support the corn flour industry (Programa de Apoyo a la Industria de la Harina de Maíz or PROHARINA). This program aims to mitigate the impact of the rise in international corn prices through price supports designed to aid the consumer and provided through the corn flour industry. To the extent that this or other similar programs are cancelled by the Mexican government, we may be required to increase the prices of our products to reflect such additional costs. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our eligibility for PROHARINA subsidies, or that the Mexican government will not institute price controls 18 Table of Contents or other actions on the products we sell, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation—Corn Flour Consumer Aid Program.” The level of environmental regulations and enforcement in Mexico has increased in recent years. In the past, the Comisión Nacional del Agua, or National Water Commission or CNA, has brought enforcement proceedings against us for fees arising from alleged water discharges from five of our facilities in Mexico. As of December 31, 2008, all of the proceedings brought against us by the CNA have been resolved in our favor. We cannot assure you that further actions of this type will not be brought against us. We expect the trend toward greater environmental regulation and enforcement to continue and to be accelerated as a result of international agreements between Mexico and the United States. The promulgation of new environmental regulations or higher levels of enforcement may adversely affect us. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Devaluations of the Mexican Peso May Affect our Financial Performance If we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations, we may have to pay interest and principal on our dollar-denominated debt with revenues generated in pesos or other currencies, as we do not generate sufficient revenue in dollars from our operations. However, because we have significant international operations, we remain exposed to foreign exchange risks that could affect our ability to meet our obligations and result in foreign exchange losses on our dollar-denominated obligations. We posted net foreign exchange losses of Ps.19 million in 2006, gain of Ps.72 million in 2007, and gain of Ps.256 million in 2008. Major devaluation or depreciation of the Mexican peso may limit our ability to transfer or to convert such currency into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. The Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico. The government could, however, institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. High Levels of Inflation and High Interest Rates in Mexico Could Adversely Affect the Business Climate in Mexico and our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, was 4.05% for 2006, 3.76% for 2007 and 6.53% for 2008. From January through May 2009, the inflation rate was 1.09%. On June 9, 2009, the 28-day CETES rate was 5.10%. While the substantial part of our debt is dollar-denominated at this time, high interest rates in Mexico may adversely affect the business climate in Mexico generally and our financing costs in the future and thus our financial condition and results of operations. Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of Our Securities and Our Results of Operations The Mexican economy may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Accordingly, the slowing economy in the United States, and the uncertainty of the impact it could have on the general economic conditions in Mexico and the United States could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. See—“Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico”, and “Risks Relating to the United States—Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance” In addition, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other emerging market countries have adversely affected the Mexican economy in the past. Our financial performance may also be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the emerging markets where we operate, particularly Mexico, Venezuela and Asia. Many countries in Latin America, including Mexico and Venezuela, have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. See also “— Risks Relating to Venezuela —Venezuela 19 Table of Contents Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk, Which May in the Future Have an Adverse Impact on Our Operations and Financial Performance.” Instability in Latin America has been caused by many different factors, including: · significant governmental influence over local economies; · substantial fluctuations in economic growth; · high levels of inflation; · changes in currency values; · exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; · high domestic interest rates; · wage and price controls; · changes in governmental economic or tax policies; · imposition of trade barriers; · unexpected changes in regulation; and · overall political, social and economic instability. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin America may create uncertainty regarding our operating environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. We cannot assure you that the events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You May Be Unable to Enforce Judgments Against Us in Mexican Courts We are a Mexican publicly held corporation (Sociedad Anónima Bursátil de Capital Variable). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of Mexico, and a significant portion of the assets of our directors and executive officers, and a significant portion of our assets, are located in Mexico. You may experience difficulty in effecting service of process upon our company or our directors and executive officers in the United States, or, more generally, outside of Mexico and in enforcing civil judgments of non-Mexican courts in Mexico, including judgments predicated on civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws, against us, or our directors and executive officers. We have been advised by our General Counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Mexican courts of liabilities predicated solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Risks Relating to Venezuela Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk, Which May in the Future Have an Adverse Impact on Our Operations and Financial Performance Our operations in Venezuela accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in 2008. In recent years, political and social instability has prevailed in Venezuela. This unrest presents a risk to our business which cannot be controlled or accurately measured or estimated. For instance, as a result of the nation-wide general strike that took place from early December 2002 to February 2003, and in an effort to shore up the economy and control inflation, Venezuelan authorities imposed foreign exchange and price controls in early 2003. 20 Table of Contents These price controls apply to products such as corn flour and wheat flour, which limit our ability to increase our prices in order to compensate for higher costs in raw materials. However, in February 2008, the Venezuelan government liberalized price controls on retail wheat flour. We cannot predict whether the Venezuelan government will reinstate price controls on wheat flour in the future. Additionally, the foreign exchange controls imposed by the Venezuelan government limit our ability to convert bolívares (the Venezuelan currency) into other currencies and transfer funds out of Venezuela. In February 2003, the Venezuelan government established a single fixed exchange rate for the bolívar of 1,600.00 bolívares per U.S.$1.00, which has been increased on several occasions to the current fixed exchange rate of 2,150.00 bolívares per U.S.$1.00 in effect since March 2005. Pursuant to a March 2007 decree, commencing on January 1, 2008 the bolívar was renamed “bolívar fuerte” and revalued at a ratio of 1,000 bolívares to 1 bolívar fuerte and 2.15 bolívares fuertes per U.S$1.00. Hugo Chávez, the current president of Venezuela was reelected to a second term in December 2006. On February 2009, a constitutional referendum was held in Venezuela to decide on the possibility for the President, State Governors, Mayors, and National Assembly Congressmen to be reelected for indefinite terms. Such proposal was approved by the majority of Venezuela’s voters. The permanent reelection of key government officials could result in social or economic instability, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Venezuela and our business. The Government of Venezuela has undertaken to nationalize foreign-owned companies in key industries such as steel, telecommunications and cement. We cannot assure you that the government of Venezuela will not continue to nationalize other foreign-owned companies, including our operations. The Venezuelan government’s continued nationalization of foreign owned companies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Additionally, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected since, among other reasons: (i) a portion of our sales are denominated in bolívares; (ii) Gruma Venezuela produces products that are subject to price controls; (iii) part of our sales depend on centralized government procurement policies for its social welfare programs; (iv) we may have difficulties repatriating dividends from Gruma Venezuela, as well as importing some of its requirements for raw materials as a result of the exchange controls, and; (v) we may face increasing costs in some of our raw materials due to the implementation of import tariffs. Risks Relating to the United States Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance Net sales in the U.S. constituted approximately 41% of our total sales in 2008. Unfavorable general economic conditions, such as the current recession and economic slowdown in the United States could negatively affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to forego purchases of our products or, if available, shift to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our products in the United States or in other major markets could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our financial performance. Additionally, as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger, they could demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Also, our dependence on sales to certain retail customers could increase. There is a risk that we will not be able to maintain our U.S. profit margin in this environment. Demand for our products in Mexico may also be disproportionately affected by the performance of the United States economy. See also “— Risks Relating to Mexico — Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico.” 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Controlling Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Vote at our Shareholders’ Meetings Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs. There can be no assurance that holders of our shares through ADSs will receive notices of shareholder meetings from our ADS depositary with sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to our ADS depositary in a timely manner. Under certain circumstances, a person designated by us may receive a proxy to vote the shares underlying the ADSs at our discretion at a shareholder meeting. Holders of ADSs Are Not Entitled to Attend Shareholder Meetings, and They May Only Vote Through the Depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In addition, such voting instructions may be limited to matters enumerated in the agenda contained in the notice to shareholders and with respect to which information is available prior to the shareholders’ meeting. Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Participate in Any Future Preemptive Rights Offering and as a Result May Be Subject to a Dilution of Equity Interest Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, other than in connection with a public offering of newly issued shares or treasury stock, we must generally grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We are under no obligation to, and there can be no assurance that we will, file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. In addition, under current Mexican law, sales by the ADS depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to the holders of our shares through ADSs is not possible. As a result, the equity interest of holders of our shares through ADSs would be diluted proportionately and such holders may not receive any economic compensation. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Preemptive Rights.” The Protections Afforded to Minority Shareholders in Mexico Are Different From Those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors, executive officers and controlling shareholders has been recently developed and there is no legal precedent to predict the outcome of any such action. Additionally, class actions are not available under Mexican law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder derivative lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, our executive officers or our controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. We Have Significant Transactions With Affiliates That Could Create Potential Conflicts of Interest As of December 31, 2008, we held approximately 8.8% of the capital stock of Grupo Financiero Banorte, S.A.B. de C.V. or GFNorte, a Mexican financial institution. In the normal course of business, we may obtain financing from GFNorte’s subsidiaries at market rates and terms. For the past six and a half years, the highest 22 Table of Contents outstanding loan amount was Ps.162 million (in nominal terms) with an interest rate of 8.9% in December 2003. As of December 31, 2008 there were no outstanding loan amounts with GFNorte’s subsidiaries. We purchase some of our inventory ingredients from our shareholder and associate Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, or Archer-Daniels-Midland, at market rates and terms. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, we purchased U.S.$115 million, U.S.$133 million and U.S.$183 million of inventory ingredients, respectively, from Archer-Daniels-Midland. Transactions with affiliates may create the potential for conflicts of interest. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Affect the Value of Our Shares Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Peso and the U.S. Dollar will affect the U.S. Dollar value of an investment in our shares and of dividend and other distribution payments on those shares. See “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rate Information” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Rate Risk.” Mexican Law Restricts the Ability of Non-Mexican Shareholders to Invoke the Protection of Their Governments With Respect to Their Rights as Shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be treated as Mexican shareholders in respect to their ownership interests in us, and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments under any circumstance, under penalty to forfeit, in favor of the Mexican government, any participation or interest held in us. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by requesting the initiation of a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to its shareholder’s rights. However, this provision shall not deem non-Mexican shareholders to have waived any other rights they may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to their investment in us. Our Controlling Shareholder Exerts Substantial Control Over Our Company As of April 30, 2009, Roberto González Barrera and his family controlled approximately 51.68% of our outstanding shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Changes in Capital Stock.” Consequently, Mr. González Barrera and his family have the power to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our stockholders, including the declaration of dividends. The interests of Mr. González Barrera and his family may differ from those of our other shareholders. Mr. González Barrera and his family’s holdings are described under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders.” Mr. González Barrera has pledged and may be required to further pledge part of his shares in our company to secure some of his borrowings. If there is a default and the lenders enforce their rights against any or all of these shares, Mr. González Barrera and his family could lose control over us and a change of control could result. In addition, this could trigger a default in some of our credit agreements and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For more information about this pledge, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Archer-Daniels-Midland, Our Strategic Partner, Has Influence Over Some Corporate Decisions; Our Relationship With Archer-Daniels-Midland Could Become Adverse and Hurt Our Performance Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 23.22% of our outstanding shares. However, a portion of such interest is held through a Mexican corporation jointly owned with Mr. González Barrera, who has the sole authority to determine how those shares are voted. Thus, Archer-Daniels-Midland only has the right to vote 18.87% of our outstanding shares. In addition, Archer-Daniels-Midland has the right to nominate 2 of the 15 members of our board of directors and their corresponding alternates. As a result, Archer-Daniels-Midland may influence the outcome of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders or our board of directors. Mr. González Barrera and Archer-Daniels-Midland have also granted each other rights of first refusal in respect of their shares in our company, subject to specified conditions. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, subject to certain requirements under the Ley del Mercado de Valores, or Mexican Securities Law, Archer-Daniels-Midland may also: (i) request the Chairman of the board or the Chairman of the audit and corporate governance committees to convene a general shareholders’ meeting; (ii) initiate civil lawsuits against members of the board of directors, members of the audit and corporate governance committees, and the chief executive officer for breach of duty; (iii) judicially oppose resolutions adopted at shareholder meetings; and (iv) request the deferral of any vote regarding an issue about which it does not believe it has been sufficiently informed. Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, a 40% interest in our subsidiary, Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V., or Molinera de México, and a 20% interest in our subsidiary, Azteca Milling, L.P., or Azteca Milling. Additionally, Archer-Daniels-Midland owns a 3% indirect interest in Molinos Nacionales, C.A., or MONACA and a 3% indirect interest in Derivados de Maíz Seleccionado, C.A. or DEMASECA. For more information, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview— Gruma Venezuela.” These subsidiaries account for 39% of our revenue. Although we own a majority ownership interest in each of Azteca Milling and Molinera de México, we are required to obtain the consent and cooperation of Archer-Daniels-Midland with respect to certain matters in order to increase our capital expenditures and to implement and expand upon our business strategies in respect of such subsidiaries. We cannot assure you that our relationships with Archer-Daniels-Midland will be harmonious and successful. Disagreements with Archer-Daniels-Midland could affect the execution of our strategy and, as a result, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Our Antitakeover Protections May Deter Potential Acquirors Certain provisions of our bylaws could make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions in our bylaws may discourage certain types of transactions involving the acquisition of our securities. These provisions could discourage transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Holders of our securities who acquire shares in violation of these provisions will not be able to vote, or receive dividends, distributions or other rights in respect of, these securities and would be obligated to pay us a penalty. For a description of these provisions, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Antitakeover Protections.” We Are a Holding Company and Depend Upon Dividends and Other Funds From Subsidiaries to Service Our Debt We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends primarily upon our receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. Under Mexican law, companies may only pay dividends: · from earnings included in year-end financial statements that are approved by shareholders at a duly convened meeting; · after any existing losses applicable to prior years have been made up or absorbed into capital; · after at least 5% of net profits for the relevant fiscal year have been allocated to a legal reserve until the amount of the reserve equals 20% of a company’s paid-in capital stock; and · after shareholders have approved the payment of the relevant dividends at a duly convened meeting. In addition, Gruma Corporation is subject to covenants in some of its debt agreements which require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and balances and, upon an event of default, prohibit the payment of cash dividends. For additional information concerning these restrictions on inter-company transfers, see “Item 3. Key Information—Dividends” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 24 Table of Contents We own approximately 83% of the outstanding shares of Grupo Industrial Maseca, S.A.B. de C.V., or GIMSA, 73% of MONACA, 57% of DEMASECA, 80% of Azteca Milling, L.P. (through Gruma Corporation), 60% of Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V. and, as of December 31, 2008, 8.8% of GFNorte. Accordingly, we are entitled to receive only our pro rata share of any of these subsidiaries’ dividends. Furthermore, our ability to repatriate dividends from Gruma Venezuela may be adversely affected by exchange controls and other recent events. See “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Venezuela—Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk.” 25 Table of Contents 