Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. Recent worldwide market turmoil may adversely affect our customers which directly impacts our business and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend on our customers having adequate resources to purchase our products and services. The unprecedented turmoil in the global and credit markets and the global economic downturn generally continues to adversely impact our customers and potential customers. These market and economic conditions have continued to deteriorate despite government intervention globally, and may remain volatile and uncertain for the foreseeable future. Customers have altered and may continue to alter their purchasing and payment activities in response to deterioration in their businesses, lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and these customers may reduce, delay or terminate purchases of, and payment for, our products and services. Certain of our current and prospective customers may go out of business, may merge with others, or may be forced to drastically cut expenditures, which may result in less demand for our products and services. Further, we may not be able to collect our accounts receivables from customers that do go out of business. If we are unable to protect against these events or adequately respond to changes in demand resulting from deteriorating market and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to meet the challenges posed by broadband access, our ability to profitably grow our business will be impaired. A substantial portion of the growth of our business has depended, and will continue to depend, in part upon our ability to expand the broadband elements of our virtual network to address broadband access technologies, such as cable modem, DSL, Wi-Fi, 3G data, Wi-Max and other wireless technologies, including 3G. Such an expansion may not result in additional revenues to us. Key challenges in expanding the broadband elements of our virtual network include: The broadband access market continues to develop at a rapid pace. Although we derive revenues from wired and wireless broadband “hotspots”, such as certain airports, hotels and convention centers, the broadband access market, particularly for wireless access, continues to develop and the level of anticipated demand may not develop. In particular, the market for enterprise connectivity services through broadband is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and there is currently no uniform standard for wireless access. Furthermore, although the use of wireless frequencies generally does not require a license in the United States and abroad, if Wi-Fi frequencies become subject to licensing requirements, or are otherwise restricted, this would substantially impair the growth of wireless access. Some large telecommunications providers and other stakeholders that pay large sums of money to license other portions of the wireless spectrum may seek to have the Wi-Fi spectrum become subject to licensing restrictions. If the broadband wireless access market does not develop, we will not be able to generate substantial revenues from broadband wireless access. The broadband service provider market is highly fragmented. There are currently many wired and wireless broadband service providers that provide coverage in only one or a small number of hotspots. We have entered into contractual relationships with numerous broadband service providers. These contracts generally have an initial term of two years or less. We must continue to develop relationships with many providers on terms commercially acceptable to us in order to provide adequate coverage for our customers’ mobile workers and to expand our broadband coverage. We may also be required to develop additional technologies in order to integrate new broadband services into our service offering. If we are unable to develop these relationships or technologies, our ability to grow our business could be impaired. In addition, if broadband service providers consolidate, our negotiating leverage with providers may decrease, resulting in increased rates for access, which could harm our operating results. Broadband service provider actions may restrict our ability to sell our services. Some network providers restrict our ability to sell access to their networks to iPass resellers whom they consider competitive with them. This can reduce our revenue by limiting the footprint our partners can make available to their customers. In addition, in some geographies the conventional practice is for a mobile data (3G) carrier to provide a device on a subsidized basis. This device cannot easily be used with any network besides that of the carrier who provides it, which makes it difficult for iPass to replace that carrier in the account and thus may negatively impact our ability to sign new enterprise customers to our Mobile Data service. If demand for broadband access continues to increase but we do not meet the challenges outlined above, our ability to grow our business may suffer. If we do not deliver valuable services for smart-phones and other Internet-connected handheld devices our ability to profitably grow our business may be impaired. A variety of smart-phone devices are available in the marketplace enabling individuals to, among other things, check email and access the Internet. There are a number of competing operating systems in use on these smart-phones. Most of these smart-phones are distributed by mobile operators to their customers for use over the particular operator’s 3G mobile data networks, and the mobile operators subsidize the purchase price of the devices in exchange for a commitment to a long-term service contract. If the capabilities of smart-phones cause our users to stop using laptops while traveling, or to use them less often, then our operating results may be harmed. Further, if we do not develop valuable services for these smart-phones in a timely fashion, these devices may access the internet and or be managed without our services, impairing our ability to grow profitably. 12 If we do not accurately predict usage for our Enterprise Flat Rate price plan, our costs could increase without a corresponding increase in revenue. We have transitioned a number of our customers to our Enterprise Flat Rate price plan, and are signing new customers to this plan. In this plan, our customers pay a flat rate price to access our services. However, we continue to pay our providers based on usage. The rate we charge in our Enterprise Flat Rate price plan is based on statistical predictions of usage across a pool of users within an enterprise. If actual usage is higher than expected our profitability will be negatively impacted. If demand for enterprise remote and mobile connectivity does not continue to expand, we may experience a shortfall in revenues or earnings or otherwise fail to meet public market expectations. The growth of our business is dependent, in part, upon the increased use of enterprise connectivity services and our ability to capture a higher proportion of this market. If the demand for enterprise connectivity services does not continue to grow, or grows in ways that do not use our services, then we may not be able to grow our business, maintain profitability or meet public market expectations. Increased usage of enterprise connectivity services depends on numerous factors, including: • the willingness of enterprises to make additional information technology expenditures; • the availability of security products necessary to ensure data privacy over the public networks; • the quality, cost and functionality of these services and competing services; • the increased adoption of wired and wireless broadband access methods; • the proliferation of electronic devices such as handhelds and smart-phones and related applications; and • the willingness of enterprises to invest in our services during the current world-wide economic crisis. We face strong competition in our market, which could make it difficult for us to succeed. We compete primarily with facilities-based carriers as well as with other non-facilities-based network operators. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories or greater name recognition than we have. In addition, we face the following challenges: Many of our competitors can compete on price. Because many of our facilities-based competitors own and operate physical networks, there may be little incremental cost for them to provide additional hotspot access or telephone connections. As a result, they may offer remote access services at little additional cost, and may be willing to discount or subsidize remote access services to capture other sources of revenue. In contrast, we have traditionally purchased network access from facilities-based network service providers to enable our remote access service. As a result, large carriers may sell their remote access services at a lower price. In addition, new non-facilities-based carriers may enter our market and compete on price. In either case, we may lose business or be forced to lower our prices to compete, which could reduce our revenues. Many of our competitors offer additional services that we do not, which enables them to compete favorably against us. Some of our competitors provide services that we do not, such as local exchange and long distance services, voicemail and digital subscriber line, or DSL, services. Potential customers that desire these services on a bundled basis may choose to obtain remote access and device management services from the competitor that provides these additional services. Our potential customers may have other business relationships with our competitors and consider those relationships when deciding between our services and those of our competitors. Many of our competitors are large facilities-based carriers that purchase substantial amounts of products and services, or provide other services or goods unrelated to remote access services. As a result, if a potential customer is also a supplier to one of our large competitors, or purchases unrelated services or goods from our competitor, the potential customer may be motivated to purchase its remote access services from our competitor in order to maintain or enhance its business relationship with that competitor. In addition, telecommunications providers may also offer Wi-Fi for free as part of a home broadband or other service contract, which also may force down the prices which the market will bear for our services. Users may adopt free Wi-Fi networks for internet and corporate access. Some venues such as cafes and hotels offer Wi-Fi internet access as a free amenity for their customers. Use at these venues may replace iPass “for charge” sessions and put downward pressure on flat rate prices iPass charges enterprises for its Wi-Fi remote access services. In addition, if home users allow others to use their Wi-Fi networks in exchange for free access to other home networks, this may force down the prices which the market will bear for our services. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s internal network, our virtual network may be perceived as not being secure and enterprises may curtail or stop using our services. It is imperative for our customers that access to their mission critical data is secure. A key component of our ability to attract and retain customers is the security measures that we have engineered into our network for the authentication of the end user’s credentials. These measures are designed to protect against unauthorized access to our customers’ networks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our services, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. To date, we have not experienced any significant security breaches to our network. 13 If our channel partners do not successfully market our services to their customers or corporate end users, then our revenues and business may be adversely affected. We sell our services directly through our sales force and indirectly through our channel partners, which include network service providers, systems integrators and value-added resellers. Our business model has changed to rely more on our channel partners. Our business depends on the efforts and the success of these channel partners in marketing our services to their customers. Our own ability to promote our services directly to their customers is often limited. Many of our channel partners may offer services to their customers that may be similar to, or competitive with, our services. Therefore, these channel partners may be reluctant to promote our services. If our channel partners fail to market our services effectively, our ability to grow our revenue would be reduced and our business will be impaired. If we are unable to effectively manage our India-based research and development operation, our business may be adversely impacted. Much of our research and development activity occurs in India. The remoteness of our India operation to corporate headquarters, as well as difficulty of acquiring and retaining talent in India, could impact our ability to release planned new products on time, which could adversely impact our business. The telecommunications industry has experienced a decline, which has caused further consolidation among network service providers and which may impair our ability to provide reliable, redundant service coverage and negotiate favorable network access terms. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant technological change and increased competition that have led to significant declines in network access pricing. In addition, the revenues of network service providers have declined as a result of the general economic slowdown. As a result, network service providers have experienced operating difficulties in the last several years, resulting in poor operating results and a number of these providers declaring bankruptcy. As these conditions have continued, some of these service providers have consolidated and are working to consolidate or otherwise cease operations, which would reduce the number of network service providers from which we are able to obtain network access. As this occurs, while we expect that we will still be able to maintain operations and provide enterprise connectivity services with a small number of network service providers, we would potentially not be able to provide sufficient redundant access points in some geographic areas, which could diminish our ability to provide broad, reliable, redundant coverage. Further, our ability to negotiate favorable access rates from network service providers could be impaired, which could increase our network access expenses and harm our operating results. If we fail to address evolving standards and technological changes in the enterprise connectivity services industry, our business could be harmed. The market for enterprise connectivity, devices (laptops, handhelds, smart-phones) and device management services is characterized by evolving industry standards and specifications and rapid technological change, including new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems. In developing and introducing our services, we have made, and will continue to make, assumptions with respect to which features, security standards, performance criteria, access methods, devices, applications and operating systems will be required or desired by enterprises and their mobile workers. If we implement technological changes or specifications that are different from those required or desired, or if we are unable to successfully integrate required or desired technological changes or specifications into our wired or wireless services, market acceptance of our services may be significantly reduced or delayed and our business could be harmed. Our software is complex and may contain errors that could damage our reputation and decrease usage of our services. Our software may contain errors that interrupt network access or have other unintended consequences. If network access is disrupted due to a software error, or if any other unintended negative results occur, such as the loss of billing information, a security breach or unauthorized access to our virtual network, our reputation could be harmed and our business may suffer. Although we generally attempt by contract to limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages, if these contract provisions are not enforced or enforceable for any reason, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, our operating results could be harmed. Because much of our business is international, we encounter additional risks, which may reduce our profitability. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from business conducted internationally. Revenues from customers domiciled outside of the United States were 39% of our revenues in 2008, of which approximately 28% and 8% were generated in our EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific regions, respectively. Although we currently bill for our services in U.S. dollars, our international operations subject our business to specific risks. These risks include: • longer payment cycles for foreign customers, including delays due to currency controls and fluctuations; • the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the attractiveness of our pricing; • high taxes in some foreign jurisdictions; • difficulty in complying with Internet-related regulations in foreign jurisdictions; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting these rights. Any of these factors could negatively impact our business. Our sales and service deployment cycles could require us to incur substantial sales costs that may not result in related revenues. Our business is characterized by a sales cycle between the time a potential customer is contacted and a customer contract is signed. Once a customer contract is signed, if the contract is not a flat-rate contract there is typically an extended period before the customer’s end users actually begin to use our services, which is when we begin to realize revenues. As a result, we may invest a significant amount of time and effort in attempting to secure a customer which may not result in any revenues. Even if we enter into a contract, we may have incurred substantial sales-related expenses well before we recognize any related revenues. If the expenses associated with sales increase, we are not successful in our sales efforts, or we are unable to generate associated offsetting revenues in a timely manner, our operating results will be harmed. 14 Completed or future acquisitions or investments could dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our operating results. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be expensive and time-consuming. For example, we completed the acquisitions of GoRemote Internet Communications, Inc. (“GoRemote”) in February 2006. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. In the case of completed or future acquisitions, we may be unable to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Completed acquisitions by us, such as the GoRemote transaction, or future acquisitions by us have or could also result in large and/or immediate write-offs, impairment charges or assumption of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Litigation arising from disputes involving third parties could disrupt the conduct of our business. Because we rely on third parties to help us develop, market and support our service offerings, from time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. If we are unable to resolve these disputes favorably, our development, marketing or support of our services could be delayed or limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business. If licenses to third party technologies do not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business and operations may be adversely affected. We license technologies from several software providers that are incorporated into our services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. Licenses from third party technologies may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. The loss of these technologies or other technologies that we license could have an adverse effect on our services and increase our costs or cause interruptions or delays in our services until substitute technologies, if available, are developed or identified, licensed and successfully integrated into our services. Litigation arising out of intellectual property infringement could be expensive and disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our products do not, or will not, infringe upon patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we may continue to be, involved in disputes with these third parties. Any claim of infringement of proprietary rights of others, even if ultimately decided in our favor, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Successful claims against us may result in an injunction or substantial monetary liability, which in either case could significantly impact our results of operations or materially disrupt the conduct of our business. If we are enjoined from using a technology, we will need to obtain a license to use the technology, but licenses to third-party technology may not be available to us at a reasonable cost, or at all. In periods of worsening economic conditions, our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases. A substantial majority of our outstanding accounts receivables are not secured. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses. As economic conditions deteriorate, certain of our customers have faced and may face liquidity concerns and have delayed and may delay or may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We maintain the cash and cash equivalents with reputable major financial institutions. Deposits with these banks exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits or similar limits in foreign jurisdictions. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents (other than our auction rate securities); however, we can provide no assurance that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. 15 Security concerns may delay the widespread adoption of the Internet for enterprise communications, or limit usage of Internet-based services, which would reduce demand for our products and services. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a significant barrier to further adoption of the Internet as a business medium. The Internet is a public network and information is sent over this network from many sources. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of code breaking or other developments could result in compromised security on our network or the networks of others. Security and authentication concerns with respect to the transmission over the Internet of confidential information, such as corporate access passwords and the ability of hackers to penetrate online security systems may reduce the demand for our services. Further, new access methods, devices, applications and operating systems have also introduced additional vulnerabilities which have been actively exploited by hackers. Internet-based worms and viruses, computer programs that are created to slow Internet traffic or disrupt computer networks or files by replicating through software or operating systems, are examples of events or computer programs that can disrupt users from using our Internet-based services and reduce demand for our services, potentially affecting our business and financial performance. In particular, certain Internet worms and viruses affected some of our customers and their mobile users, which may have negatively impacted our revenues. Furthermore, any well-publicized compromises of confidential information may reduce demand for Internet-based communications, including our services. Government regulation of, and legal uncertainties regarding, the Internet could harm our business. Internet-based communication services generally are not subject to federal fees or taxes imposed to support programs such as universal telephone service. Changes in the rules or regulations of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission or in applicable federal communications laws relating to the imposition of these fees or taxes could result in significant new operating expenses for us, and could negatively impact our business. Any new law or regulation, U.S. or foreign, pertaining to Internet-based communications services, or changes to the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise harm our business. There are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws or regulations may relate to taxation and the quality of products and services. Furthermore, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing intellectual property ownership and infringement, taxation, encryption, obscenity, libel, employment, personal privacy, export or import matters and other issues is uncertain and developing and we are not certain how the possible application of these laws may affect us. Some of these laws may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Changes in laws intended to address these issues could create uncertainty in the Internet market, which could reduce demand for our services, increase our operating expenses or increase our litigation costs. 16 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 