Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the SEC also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below. 12 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Risks Related To Our Business Capital constraints have resulted in the employees of Stratus and ProElite having been on furlough from February 16, 2012 to the date of this report and the Company being behind on payments for its office space and a number of other critical vendors. Capital constraints necessitated that the Company put all employees of Stratus and ProElite on unpaid furlough on February 16, 2012 and through the date of this report (“Furlough Period"). During this period, a limited number of employees continued to provide services to the Company. While operations have continued on a limited basis during this time, activities were largely halted during this period for event production and development of the Stratus White program. This Furlough Period may make it more difficult to restart the Company’s operations effectively. In addition, the Company is approximately four months behind on rent payments for its office space and has received “pay or quit” notices on this office space. Delays in payments for the Company’s office space and other vendors may have impaired the Company’s credit and standing with its suppliers such that more cash may be required to restart the Company’s operations and events. The Company will require significant additional funding beyond the $13 million received in the year ended December 31, 2011. This $13 million was not sufficient to implement the Company’s business plan and the Company will require additional financing to implement its business plan including activating a number of Company events. The Company is actively engaged in raising capital, but there is no assurance it will be able to do so. If the Company cannot raise capital the ability of the Company to implement its business plan may be materially impacted. Our company is in early stages of development, which increases the risk of investments in our common stock Since we are re-establishing our events and Stratus White, we are in the early stages of development, and are in the process of bringing our staffing, infrastructure and marketing programs to an operational level. We have secured funding to pay certain liabilities, have begun to reestablish operations, and have begun to establish the business concept within current markets. We have incurred substantial losses, are in the process of establishing business operations, and have received a “going concern” qualification from our auditors, which indicates that there are substantial risks in our establishing profitable operations and that we will need capital to continue as a going concern. As noted in the opinion of our independent financial auditors, “The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, we have suffered recurring losses and have negative cash flow from operations. This raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.” We had net losses for 2011 and 2010 of $15,927,846 and $8,409,605, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had negative working capital of $3,575,944 and an accumulated deficit of $42,144,343. The implementation of our business plan will require additional financing. Additional funds will be required to complete acquisitions and integrate them into the Company. Based on market conditions at the time, we may be unable to obtain sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by selling our equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors will be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than those of our existing investors. If we raise additional funds through debt financing, we could incur significant borrowing costs as well as face the possibility of default if we are unable to repay the financing. If we cannot obtain sufficient financing, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate our acquisition, marketing and promotion campaigns, which could significantly limit our revenues. Intangible assets comprise most of our assets and are subject to impairment charges that will increase our losses. Such losses could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, the total of our intangible assets and goodwill was $3,359,466 or 91% of our total assets of $3,673,551. These intangible assets and goodwill are evaluated on an annual basis for impairment of the balance sheet value due to active or dormant status, competitive conditions, changes in our plans, and other factors that we determine are highly likely to reduce the ability of these assets to generate cash in the future. As of December 31, 2011, the Company determined the following to arrive at an impairment charge of $1,859,778. The $86,019 of value assigned to Stratus White for technology, membership list and corporate partner list was impaired in full given the development of the current program had replaced these existing items with new technology and corporate partner list. The $169,958 of intangible assets for the Rodeo Drive Concours was impaired and the Company took $167,458 of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of this asset to its estimated current market value of $2,500. The $243,000 of intangible assets for the Santa Barbara Concours was impaired and the Company took $190,000 of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of this asset to its estimated current market value of $53,000. The $1,067,069 of intangible assets for the Core Tour was impaired and the Company took $967,069 of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of this asset to its estimated current market value of $100,000. The $344,232 of intangible assets for the Freedom Bowl was impaired and the Company took $154,232 of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of this asset to its estimated current market value of $190,000. The $300,000 of intangible assets for the Maui Music Festival was impaired and the Company took $295,000 of impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of this asset to its estimated current market value of $5,000. 13 For 2010, we determined the $450,000 of value assigned to Stratus White as Corporate Membership was no longer available to us and that $100,000 of value assigned to Stratus White proprietary software had been impaired given the availability of commercial software with similar or better functionality. In addition, we took an impairment charge against the value of the Maui Music Festival of $100,000. Accordingly, we took total impairment charges of $650,000 in 2010. Additional impairment charges could be required in the future, which would increase losses and reduce our asset base accordingly and which could have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our strategy includes plans for expansion by acquisition, which will require additional capital. While we have identified several promising acquisition targets, we have not commenced negotiations with any targets. We need to raise additional capital to complete any acquisitions, and there can be no assurances we will be able to do so, or will choose to do so. While we intend that the value added by acquisitions will more than offset the dilution created by the issuance of shares for acquisitions, there can be no assurance that this offset will occur. Additional financing for future acquisitions may be unavailable and, depending on the terms of the proposed acquisitions, financings may be restricted by the terms of credit agreements and privately placed debt securities contained in the financing. Any debt financing would require payments of principal and interest and would adversely impact our cash flow. Furthermore, future acquisitions may result in charges to operations relating to losses to the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, thereby increasing our losses or reducing or eliminating our earnings, if any. Our strategy of expansion by acquisitions has inherent risks. Although management believes that pursuing our acquisition strategy is in our best interests, such strategy involves substantial expenditures and risks on our part. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will be completed successfully or, if completed, will yield the expected benefits to us, or will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the value attributed by the market to acquisitions will offset the dilution created by the issuance of additional shares. Furthermore, consummation of the intended acquisitions could result in charges to operations relating to losses from the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, which would increase our losses or reduce or eliminate our earnings, if any. As a result of the foregoing, there can be no assurance as to when the intended acquisitions will be consummated or that they will be consummated. Furthermore, the results of the intended acquisitions may fail to conform to the assumptions of management. Therefore, in analyzing the information in this document, stockholders should consider that the intended acquisitions may not be consummated at all. While acquisition agreements generally provide for indemnification from the seller for a limited period of time with respect to certain matters, some sellers may not be willing to provide indemnification, or may limit the scope of indemnification or that other material matters not identified in the due diligence process will subsequently be identified or that matters heretofore identified will prove to be more significant than currently expected and it is possible that the provider of the indemnification may be unwilling or unable to provide such indemnification. Future acquisitions by us could result in (a) potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, (b) the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and/or (c) incurrence of expenses for interest, operating losses and the write down of goodwill and other intangible assets, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that such acquisitions were to occur, there can be no assurance that our business, financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. Most of our events have not been run continuously on an annual basis since 2004 and need to be reestablished. We intend to reestablish some or all of those events to afford economies of scale in operations. While we believe that the nature of the event business allows for events to be readily reestablished and that we believe we have the experience and management expertise to re-establish those events, there can be no assurance that such events will be successfully reestablished. We believe we have full ownership of these events and related intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that unknown or unforeseen claims will not arise after successful reestablishment of such events. The events we ran in 2010 and 2011 were not profitable and there can be no assurance that future events can be run in a profitable manner. In 2004, we realized $2,554,600 of revenues from events. There were no revenues from events in 2006 and 2009. Total revenues of $252,741 were realized from events in 2005, 2007 and 2008, which were derived from smaller-scale, standalone events rather than recurring annual events of a larger scale anticipated in our business plan. During 2010, we conducted the Santa Barbara Concours d’ Elegance on a limited basis and realized revenues of $40,189 and a gross margin loss of $170,393. In 2011 we conducted the Santa Barbara Concours d'Elegance with revenues of $197,415 and a gross margin loss of $26,048 and the Mille Miglia North American Tribute with revenues of $59,890 and a gross margin loss of $858,514. In 2011, ProElite had revenues of $376,751 and a gross margin loss of $159,483. 14 Our credit card marketing operations, inactive since October 2007, are planned to be reestablished in 2012. From 2005 to 2007, we operated the Stratus White Visa card on a limited basis and realized revenues of approximately $700,000 during this time. These operations became inactive in October 2007. In May 2010, we signed a Co-branded Credit Card Agreement with Cornèr Bank, a private Swiss bank headquartered in Lugano, Switzerland, to issue the Stratus White Visa Card throughout Europe. Cornèr Bank is a founding member bank of VISA and controls 20% of the Board of Visa Europe. The Company is developing its concierge service, privilege program, e-commerce platform and marketing strategy for a planned launch in 2012 or 2013. Card member services will be performed by us and outside vendors. Key support vendors have been identified and contractual negotiations have been negotiated. While we have established relationships with these key support vendors, we have not been able to meet our financial obligations to them and there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish our Stratus White program in a timely manner or at all. Our company depends on its key executive officers. We depend on our key executives, including Paul Feller, our Chairman and CEO, William Kelly, our Chief Operating Officer, and John Moynahan, our Chief Financial Officer. We do not have key-person life insurance policies on any of our executives. To achieve our business objectives, we must hire additional personnel to fill key managerial positions and provide them with compensation packages sufficient to retain their services. Our future success will depend upon the ability of our executive officers to establish clear lines of responsibility and authority, to work effectively as a team and to gain the trust and confidence of our employees. The loss of the services of a key employee could seriously impair our ability to operate and improve our events portfolio, which could reduce our revenues. We must also identify, attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled, technical, managerial, merchandising, engineering, accounting, marketing and customer service personnel. Live entertainment events are largely cash based and are conducted in remote locations. Live-entertainment events are conducted in numerous locations and often involve significant cash collections for tickets, concessions, merchandise, etc. We have developed and will continue to develop controls and procedures to control cash, to monitor cash proceeds, and to ensure that it is collected and deposited properly. However, there can be no assurance that all cash proceeds at an event will be deposited properly into our accounts. We have not paid dividends on our stock, nor do we plan to do so for the foreseeable future. At the present time, we intend to reinvest any cash generated from operations into expansion of operations and do not intend to pay dividends. We will periodically evaluate the best means to bring value to shareholders and such evaluations could result in a continuation of this policy. Investors should look to the growth in value as the primary means of realizing a return on their investment and should not look to dividends for a return. There can be no assurance that our proposed operations will result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate at profitable levels or to generate positive cash flow. Any delay in the successful execution of our operations of or the acquisition and marketing strategies could delay the payment of dividends for an undetermined amount of time. RISKS RELATING TO OUR MARKETS The success of our events requires the availability of suitable athletes, artists and locations. Our ability to sell tickets (including subscriptions) is dependent on the availability of popular athletes, artists and events. There can be no assurance that popular athletes, artists and events will be available to us in the future, or will be available on terms acceptable to us. The lack of availability of these artists and productions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Because we will operate live entertainment events under leasing or booking agreements with venues, our long-term success will depend upon our ability to renew these agreements upon their expiration or termination. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain attractive agreements with substitute venues. Our industry is very competitive and most of our competitors are substantially larger than us and may have better access to capital needed to successfully run events. Competition in the live entertainment industry is intense, and is fragmented among a wide variety of entities. In addition, television, movies, Internet and other non-live events compete for the time and attention of potential attendees for live events. We intend to compete on a local, regional and national basis with large venue owners and entertainment promoters for the hosting, booking, promoting and producing of live entertainment events. Moreover, our marketing operations will compete with advertising agencies and other marketing organizations. We will compete not only with other live entertainment events, including sporting events and theatrical presentations, but also with non-live forms of entertainment, such as television, radio and motion pictures. Our competitors generally have substantially greater resources than us. Certain of our competitors may also have greater operating and financial flexibility than us. In addition, many of these competitors have long standing relationships with performers, producers, and promoters and may offer other services that are not provided by us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or against these competitors. 15 Our events business is dependent on obtaining local and/or private permits to conduct the events and our Stratus White business operates in a highly-regulated environment. The ability to conduct live entertainment events is subject to extensive local, state and federal governmental licensing, approval and permit requirements, including, among other things, approvals of state and local land-use and environmental authorities, building permits, zoning permits and liquor licenses. Significant acquisitions may also be subject to the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act or other antitrust laws or regulations. Other types of licenses, approvals and permits from governmental or quasi-governmental agencies may also be required for other opportunities that we may pursue in the future, although we have no agreements or understandings with respect to these opportunities at this time. In addition, the Stratus credit card operates in a highly regulated and controlled market. We have used, and intend to use a large, established commercial bank to run our credit card processing and payments, but there can be no assurance that we may not be subject to current or future rules or regulations that could adversely affect our ability to operate the Stratus card in the manner intended or to achieve the results expected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the licenses, approvals and permits we may require from time to time in order to operate our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our ability to operate events and the credit card operations. We have purchased a number of events and the Stratus White business and intend to acquire other events. When an event is purchased, we acquire certain naming, venue and other intellectual property rights that are needed to conduct these events and card operations and prevent other parties from infringing on these events. While we do an extensive check to verify these rights, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property rights will be sufficient to allow us to conduct such events. Currently, the Company does not have trademarks on its event properties or the Stratus White program. While the Company intends to establish, or reestablish, these trademarks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. If intellectual property rights relating to past or future acquisitions are challenged by third parties, we could incur significant costs to defend such rights and/or we could be required to pay license fees to such third parties if they were to prevail in a legal challenge to such intellectual property rights. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and the stock is thinly traded. If trading volume increases in the future, the fluctuations in price could be greater than those experienced in the past. From May 16, 2010 to May 16, 2012, the average price of our common stock was $ 0.68 per share, with a low of $0.30 and a high of $ 1.99, on an average trading volume per day of 24,748 shares. As noted below, it is possible that trading volumes could increase significantly and such increased volume could lead to significant fluctuations in the price of our stock. We have a significant amount of stock eligible for resale under a Rule 144 exemption, and we have also sold stock that is, or will become within six months, eligible for resale under a Rule 144 exemption. Sales of such stock could depress the stock price significantly. As of December 31, 2011 we had 88,157,055 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 7,013,401 are freely-trading and 65,641,461 were eligible for resale under Rule 144. Of such 65,641,461 shares, 26,416,341 shares are held by our Chairman and CEO that have significant limitations on resale and 9,405,000 are held by an affiliate with volume restrictions on resale, leaving 29,820,120 of these shares eligible for resale under Rule 144 with minimal restrictions. Additionally, pursuant to our registration statement that became effect on February 13, 2012, an additional 41,650,000 shares may be sold: 3,500,000 of shares of common stock covered by this registration statement; 10,945,000 shares if holders of Series E Preferred stock convert into common stock; 21,767,000 shares if all warrants are exercised; and 5,437,500 shares if all dividends are paid in common stock rather than cash and all assumptions used to calculate this amount turn out to be correct. If the selling securityholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. 16 The company is the result of a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resulting in a limitation your use of exemptions for resale. Since the Company had a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resale of your shares under Rule 144 may be limited. The use of Rule 144 is the most common method of selling restricted shares. Rule 144(i), which pertains to shares issued by a former shell company that executed a reverse merger. Under Rule 144(i), sales of shares may only be made under certain conditions, including if we have filed all Annual and Quarterly reports required under the securities laws. Therefore permission may be granted to remove the restrictive legend on stock certificates only for a specified sale of securities and not as a “blanket” removal of the restrictive legend. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the Over The Counter Bulletin Board Market ("OTCBB") and our common stock is delisted from this market, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our common stock is listed on the OTCBB. Among other requirements to maintain such listing, we need to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q and our Annual Report on Form 10K with the SEC in a timely manner. We were late in filing our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10K and this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10K, which means that we must file all quarterly and annual reports in a timely manner for the next year or the Company’s common stock will be delisted from the OTCBB. In the event our common stock returns to the OTC Markets, the market for our common stock may be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2011, our Founder, Chairman and CEO, Paul Feller and co-Founder, Dr. Ralph Feller, collectively controlled approximately 41 % of our outstanding common stock (prior to any option or warrant exercises). As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Stockholders will have minimal influence over these actions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO PROELITE, INC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS ProElite requires additional capital. The business plan for ProElite requires that substantial additional funds need to be raised. No assurance can be given that such funds will be available or what the terms thereof may be. If the Company fails to raise sufficient funds for ProElite, or ProElite is unable to raise funds directly, ProElite will not be implement its business plan and may have to curtail or cease operations. Any additional equity raise by ProElite shares will be dilutive to the Company’s interest in ProElite. We may be unable to compete successfully with our competitors. We face competition from existing international organizations such as the Ultimate Fighting Championship (“UFC”), Strikeforce, and Bellator. Strikeforce and UFC are owned by Zuffa, LLC, a widely-known MMA promoter in the United States. UFC produces MMA events for cable television through its agreement with SpikeTV and for pay-per-view audiences. Strikeforce has a current television deal with Showtime Networks. Bellator has a current television deal with MTV2. For our live and television audiences, we also face competition from other professional and college sports as well as from other forms of live, filmed and televised entertainment and other leisure activities. We compete with entertainment companies, professional and college sports leagues and other makers of branded apparel and merchandise for the sale of our branded merchandise, including hats, t-shirts, sweatshirts, fight apparel, gloves, jackets and other similar items. 17 Many of our competitors have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these competitors have also been in operation for a longer period of time and have accumulated an installed base of fans. If we are unable to distinguish our mixed martial arts events and products from competing events, or if competing products reach the market first, we may be unable to compete successfully with current or future competitors. This would cause our revenues to decline and affect our ability to achieve profitability. We may be unable to compete with new competitors with greater resources that enter into the mixed martial arts industry. As the mixed martial arts industry continues to grow and gain mainstream popularity, new competitors will enter the MMA market and they may have superior resources to us. The Company may not have the resources necessary to compete with these new competitors, nor is there any guarantee that these new competitors will prevent the Company from accomplishing its goals. The establishment of relationships with advertisers is necessary for us to achieve significant revenues. Our revenue model includes revenues from advertising, which in turn depends on satisfactory distribution of our programming. We currently do not have in place distribution arrangements with any major cable or broadcast channels. If we are unable to develop sufficient relationships with key advertisers, we might not be able to achieve the revenues we are projecting. Our success depends on fan interest, so our business could fail if there is not a continued interest in our sport. Mixed martial arts is a relatively new sport, so its continued popularity cannot be assumed, like baseball, basketball, football, golf, or boxing. As public tastes change frequently, interest in MMA may decline in the future. Such decline would threaten our ability to generate revenue and earn profits. The success of our live events depends upon our ability to recruit and develop relationships with key fighters. The success of our live events depends upon the ability of our production and management team to find, attract, and schedule fighters that appeal to the paying public. The audience appeal of our fighters is critical to maintaining interest in our events. There is no guarantee that we can sign, attract and retain popular fighters. There is no guarantee that the various state athletic commissions will certify a fighter once we have retained the fighter. There is no guarantee that the fighter will pass various drug screening tests that state commissions may require post event. Finally, due to the violent nature of this industry, we have no guarantee a fighter will be injury free at the time of an event which could cause the fighter to not be able to fight. This could negatively impact a given live event if the fighter is a headline person. We may be subject to claims that fighters we sign up do not have the right to participate in our events. Fighters we sign up may be subject to prior contractual commitments which prevent them from participating in all or certain of our events. This will negatively impact our live events if we are unable to resolve such conflicts prior to the live event or are unable to find an equally popular fighter of equal or substantially similar ability to replace the original fighter whose contractual commitment prevents him from participating in our event. Our failure to develop creative and entertaining programs and events would likely have a significant impact on our bottom line. The creation, marketing and distribution of our live entertainment, including any pay-per-view events, are at the core of our business plan and are critical to our ability to generate revenues across our media platforms and product outlets. Our failure to create popular and compelling live events would likely adversely affect our operating results. There could be unexpected costs associated with our live events. We may incur unexpected costs associated with promoting large-scale events. These costs could be related to, among other factors, production, distribution, or marketing overruns. These unexpected costs could significantly affect our profits. 18 We may enter into agreements with other mixed martial arts organizations or promotion companies to co-promote or co-produce a live event. We cannot guarantee that any revenues or fees we receive in connection with such events will exceed our costs, nor can we guarantee that such events will increase our popularity in the mixed martial arts community. We may enter into agreements with other mixed martial arts organizations or promotion companies to co-promote or co-produce a live mixed martial arts event. We will have limited control over the promotion or production aspects of the event, which may impact the gate ticket sales at the event and affect gate revenues. We cannot guarantee that any revenues or fees we receive in connection with such events will exceed our costs. We cannot guarantee that promoting or producing a live event with another MMA organization or promotion company will not negatively impact our image in the MMA community. A decline in general economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are affected by general economic conditions, which generally may affect consumers’ disposable income and the level of advertising spending. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to the level of consumers’ disposable income. A decline in general economic conditions could reduce the level of discretionary income that our fans and potential fans have to spend on our live and televised entertainment and consumer products, which could adversely affect our revenues. We face uncertainties associated with international markets. We expect to produce events outside of the United States. Our production of live events overseas will subject us to the risks involved in foreign travel, local regulations, including regulations requiring us to obtain visas for our fighters, and political instability inherent in varying degrees in those markets. In addition, the licensing of our television and consumer products in international markets exposes us to some currency risk. These risks could adversely affect our operating results and impair our ability to pursue our business strategy as it relates to international markets. We may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events if we do not comply with applicable regulations. In various states in the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, athletic commissions and other applicable regulatory agencies require us to obtain licenses for promoters, medical clearances and/or other permits or licenses for performers and/or permits for events in order for us to promote and conduct our live events. In the event that we fail to comply with the regulations of a particular jurisdiction, we may be prohibited from promoting and conducting our live events in that jurisdiction. The inability to present our live events over an extended period of time or in a number of jurisdictions could lead to a decline in the various revenue streams generated from our live events, which could adversely affect our operating results. Liability claims in excess of our planned insurance coverage could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our live actions events could expose us to significant liability claims. These claims might be made directly by participants, attendees or our customers. A liability claim or other claim, as well as any claims for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management attention from our operations and generate adverse publicity. This could harm our reputation, result in a decline in revenues and increase expenses. Our products could give rise to claims that our technology, products or processes infringe on the rights of others. We are potentially subject to claims and litigation from third parties claiming that our products or processes infringe their patent or other proprietary rights. If any such actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture, use or sell the affected product or process. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us, may also be necessary to enforce our patent and proprietary rights and/or to determine the scope and validity of the patents or proprietary rights of others. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be true, will not prevent us from selling our products or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. We cannot assure you that a license will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be subject to claims of trademark infringement, which may harm our business. We may be subject to legal proceedings alleging claims of trademark infringement in the future. If we must rebrand, it may result in significant marketing expenses and additional management time and resources, which may adversely affect our business. 19 We also cannot guarantee that our trademarks will be protected. If others infringe on our trademarks, it may cause harm to our brand and ultimately, to us, and we could be forced to spend additional time and resources fighting such infringement. We may be unable to scale our operations successfully. Subject to the availability of capital, our plan is to grow rapidly. Our growth will place significant demands on our management and technology development, as well as our financial, administrative and other resources. We cannot guarantee that any of the systems, procedures and controls we put in place will be adequate to support the commercialization of our operations. Our operating results will depend substantially on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our financial, administrative and other resources. If we are unable to respond to and manage changing business conditions, or the scale of our products, services and operations, then the quality of our services, our ability to retain key personnel and our business could be harmed. We depend on certain key executive personnel and other key managerial personnel for our success, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued availability and contributions of members of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of services of any of these persons could delay or reduce our product development commercialization efforts, event management, and promotions and advertising efforts. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. The loss of members of our management team, key advisors or personnel, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors, could significantly weaken our management, harm our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. We may be unable to compete with larger or more established sports leagues for corporate advertising budgets. We face a large and growing number of competitors in the sports and entertainment industry. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition, and more established relationships in the industry than does the Company. As a result, certain of these competitors may be in better positions to obtain corporate advertising. We cannot be sure we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. There are only a few major broadcast and cable networks that can distribute our programming to a sufficiently large audience, so we have only very limited alternatives if one or more of distributors performs unsatisfactorily, insists on unfavorable contract terms, or elects not to carry our programming. We currently have a broadcast arrangement with HDNet. However, our business plan contemplates widespread distribution of our programming to generate revenue, and interest sponsors and other advertisers. There are only a limited number of major cable networks and four major broadcast networks that include sports programming and provide sufficient market reach. Our choices are limited, and our ability to enter into distribution agreements with major broadcast and/or cable networks cannot be assured. If we are unable to make suitable distribution arrangements, our business plan will be materially impaired. Difficulty in retaining current fighters or recruiting future fighters could impair our prospects. The number of professional MMA fighters is small in relation to other professional sports, as is the number of first-rate, non-pro fighters who might fight professionally in the future. Our prospects could decline and investments in the Company be impaired if our fighters are recruited by competitors or decide to pursue other occupations. The lack of working capital could result in our loss of some key fighters. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented, and we may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence. For our live and television audiences, we face competition from professional and college sports, as well as from other forms of live and televised entertainment and other leisure activities in a rapidly changing and increasingly fragmented marketplace. Many of the companies with which we compete have greater financial resources than are available to us. Our failure to compete effectively could result in a significant loss of viewers, venues, distribution channels or athletes and fewer advertising dollars spent on our form of sporting events, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to hire additional needed personnel, our growth prospects will be limited, or our operations may be impaired. Our business requires uniquely trained and experienced professionals, and our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel. Qualified employees will be a limited resource for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to retain necessary personnel, our business will probably suffer, and investors may incur losses on their investment in the Company. Furthermore, our limited operating history may require the Company to pay above market salaries in order to attract qualified personnel which could impact our profitability. 20 Our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that occur during our physically demanding events. We plan to hold numerous live events each year. This schedule exposes our athletes who are involved in the production of those events to the risk of travel and event-related accidents, the consequences of which may not be fully covered by insurance. The physical nature of our events exposes athletes and coaches to the risk of serious injury or death. Liability extending to us resulting from any death or serious injury sustained by one of the athletes during an event, to the extent not covered by our insurance, if any, could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere and related private-sector initiatives could adversely affect our business. Although the production and distribution of television programming by independent producers is not directly regulated by the federal or state governments in the US, the marketplace for television programming in the United States is affected significantly by government regulations applicable to, as well as social and political influences on, television stations, television networks and cable and satellite television systems and channels. Assuming we enter into distribution arrangements, we plan to voluntarily designate the suitability of each of our television programs for audiences using standard industry practices. A number of governmental and private sector initiatives relating to the content of media programming in recent years have been announced in response to recent events unrelated to us or MMA. Changes in governmental policy and private sector perceptions could further restrict our program content and adversely affect our viewership levels and operating results, as well as the willingness of broadcasters to distribute our programming. Because we expect to depend upon our intellectual property rights, our inability to protect those rights or prevent their infringement by others could adversely affect our business. We anticipate that intellectual property will be material to all aspects of our operations, and we may expend substantial cost and effort in an attempt to maintain and protect our intellectual property. We plan to have a portfolio of registered trademarks and service marks and maintain a catalog of copyrighted works, including copyrights to television programming and photographs. Our inability to protect this portfolio of trademarks, service marks, copyrighted material, trade names and other intellectual property rights from piracy, counterfeiting or other unauthorized use could negatively affect our business. We face a variety of risks as we expand into new and complementary businesses. Risks of expansion may include: · potential diversion of management’s attention and other resources, including available cash, from our existing business; · unanticipated liabilities or contingencies; · reduced earnings due to increased costs; · failure to retain and recruit MMA athletes; · failure to maintain agreements for distribution; · inability to protect intellectual property rights; · competition from other companies with experience in such businesses; and · possible additional regulatory requirements and compliance costs. RISKS RELATED TO CAPITAL STRUCTURE Stratus owns Convertible Preferred Stock equivalent to 95% of the outstanding capital stock for ProElite. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by SMGI is convertible into shares of the Company’s Common Stock equal to 95% of the Company’s outstanding Common Stock so that, upon conversion, there will be substantial dilution to the Company’s shareholders. Also, the Preferred Shares have voting rights on an as-converted basis and accordingly, SMGI has voting and operational control over the Company. Additionally, such Preferred Stock has priority over all common shares of the Company in the case of any liquidation. 21 In the event that we raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, or securities exercisable for or convertible into our equity securities, our shareholders, including Stratus, could experience substantial dilution. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders may incur substantial dilution. Further, any shares so issued may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to the rights, preferences and privileges of our outstanding common stock. The Company had a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resulting in a limitation your use of exemptions for resale. Since the Company is the result of a “reverse merger” with a shell entity, resale of your shares under Rule 144 may be limited. The use of Rule 144 is the most common method of selling restricted shares. Rule 144(i), which pertains to shares issued by a former shell company that executed a reverse merger. Under Rule 144(i), sales of shares may only be made under certain conditions, including if we have filed all Annual and Quarterly reports required under the securities laws. Therefore permission may be granted to remove the restrictive legend on stock certificates only for a specified sale of securities and not as a “blanket” removal of the restrictive legend. There is presently no current information on the Company. The Company is currently delinquent in its filings with the SEC. As such, Rule 144 is not presently available for the resale of any Securities sold in this Offering, although the Company is preparing and then filing the delinquent reports. Trading is currently restricted in ProElite stock because the stock is not trading on electronic exchanges because of DTC restrictions and the SEC has taken action to deregister the common stock of PEI because we are delinquent in filling our historical filings with the SEC and the stock is not currently trading on the OTC markets. We have completed the audits and have prepared all of the necessary filings to rectify this situation, but we are still working with our auditors to complete and file these reports. We expect to file these reports shortly after this report is filed, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, or that our common stock will remain registered with the SEC. In the absence of registration, we may have difficulty in having PEI common stock continue to trade. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile, as is the stock market in general and the market for companies at our stage of development in particular. Some of the factors that may materially affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control, such as changes in financial estimates by industry and securities analysts, conditions or trends in the MMA and entertainment industries, announcements made by our competitors or sales of our common stock. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, the public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance of an established public trading market, and the failure to establish one would adversely affect the ability of our investors to sell their securities in the public market. At present, there is no active trading market for the Company’s securities, and there can be no assurance that a trading market will develop. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Markets (the Pink Sheets). We intend to have our stock traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or the new BX Market operated by NASDAQ, but no assurance can be given that such trading will be approved, or if so approved, whether a viable trading market will develop. 22 Factors which may adversely affect market prices of the Company’s common stock. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: · the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering or acquisition; · changes in interest rates; · competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · investor perceptions of our company and the mixed martial arts industry generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. The Company may issue securities to strategic investors, which will be reported as a loss in our financial statements. This increase in reported loss in our financial statements may negatively impact the market price of the Company's common stock. We are currently in discussions with strategic investors, pursuant to which we will issue securities on terms that may be more favorable than the securities registered or sold pursuant to this registration statement. The issuance of such securities will be reported as a loss on our financial statements. The additional reported loss from the issuance of such securities, if material, may negatively impact the market price of the Company's common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. All of the Securities sold hereunder are restricted securities as defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”). Any substantial resale, and the possibility of substantial resales, of the common stock issued in this Offering or under Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock by creating an excessive supply. The above discussion assumes that there is current public information on ProElite which is not currently the case. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” since it meets one or more of the definition in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. These include but are not limited to the following: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) it is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend the stock but must trade in it on an unsolicited basis. Additionally, Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. 23 If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting (“ICFR”), the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We are required to establish and maintain appropriate ICFR. Failure to establish those controls, or any failure of those controls once established, could adversely impact our public disclosures regarding our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, management’s assessment of ICFR may identify weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our ICFR or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. Any actual or perceived weaknesses and conditions that need to be addressed in our ICFR, disclosure of management’s assessment of our ICFR or disclosure of our public accounting firm’s attestation to or report on management’s assessment of our ICFR may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under New Jersey law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the shareholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; · allow shareholders to request that we call a special meeting of our shareholders only if the requesting shareholders hold of record at least a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock; · provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, amend or repeal our bylaws; and · provide that business to be conducted at any special meeting of shareholders be limited to matters relating to the purposes stated in the applicable notice of meeting. Standards for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are uncertain, and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our ICFR. The standards that must be met for management to assess the ICFR as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our ICFR. If we cannot assess our ICFR as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our stock and do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. THE FOREGOING IS A SUMMARY OF SOME OF THE MORE SIGNIFICANT RISKS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. THE FOREGOING SHOULD NOT BE INTERPRETED AS A REPRESENTATION THAT THE MATTERS REFERRED TO HEREIN ARE THE ONLY RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NEITHER THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NOR THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS HEREIN SHOULD BE DEEMED A REPRESENTATION THAT SUCH RISKS ARE OF EQUAL MAGNITUDE. PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS ARE URGED TO CONSULT THEIR OWN ADVISORS AS TO THE INVESTMENT AND ANY TAX CONSEQUENCES OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable for smaller reporting companies. 