ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information provided to you in this report, including information in the section of this document entitled “Forward Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our Common Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in us and in analyzing our forward-looking statements. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a relatively limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Although we have been in operation since 1990, we have a relatively short operating history and limited financial data upon which you may evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our business model is likely to continue to evolve as we attempt to expand our product offerings and our presence in the generic pharmaceutical market. As a result, our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are attempting to move into new markets and continuing to innovate with new and unproven technologies. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: ·develop new products; ·obtain regulatory approval of our products; ·manage our growth, control expenditures and align costs with revenues; ·attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and respond to competitive developments. If we do not effectively address the risks we face, our business model may become unworkable and we may not achieve or sustain profitability or successfully develop any products. We have not been profitable and expect future losses. To date, we have not been profitable and we may never be profitable or, if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain profitability. We have sustained losses from operations in each year since our incorporation in 1990. During the past two fiscal years, we incurred net losses from operations of $5,283,624 and $1,563,133, respectively We expect to continue to incur losses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations and offset operating costs. We may require additional financing to meet our business objectives and to continue as a going concern. Although we believe that we have adequate financial resources on hand as of March 31, 2014 to complete the clinical trials and file a marketing approval application with the FDA for one abuse resistant opioid product and also ensure operations through March 31, 2015, we cannot assure that we will not need additional funding to accomplish our plans to conduct the clinical development and commercialization of a range of multiple abuse resistant opioids on an accelerated pace. 23 As of March 31, 2014, we had cash reserves of approximately $6.9 million and a working capital surplus of $3.8 million, and, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we had losses from operations totaling $5.3 million, net other expenses totaling $91.6 million and a net loss of $96.6 million. During the year ended March 31, 2014, we raised approximately $10 million from the sale of shares to with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“Lincoln Park”) pursuant to a prior April 19, 2013 purchase agreement. While that agreement terminated in March 2014 with the sale of all shares covered by that agreement, we entered into a new purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Lincoln Park in April 2014, pursuant to which we could raise up to $40 million (see “Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Liquidity and Capital Resources; Lincoln Park Capital” below). As of June 20, 2014, we have sold approximately 2.4 million shares pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, with proceeds of such sales totaling approximately $0.9 million. In addition, both Nasrat Hakim, our CEO, and Jerry Treppel, our Chairman, have each provided Elite with a revolving bridge credit line of up to $1,000,000. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park, we may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $40,000,000 worth of shares of our common stock under our agreement over a 36 month period generally in amounts up to 500,000 shares on any such business day. However, Lincoln Park shall not be required to purchase more than $760,000 worth of stock on any business day and cannot purchase any shares of our common stock on any business day that the closing sale price of our common stock is less than $0.10 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in the Purchase Agreement. Assuming a purchase price of $0.425 per share (the closing sale price of the common stock on June 20, 2014) and only 101,735,704 shares available for purchase, we would receive $40 million in gross proceeds from purchases under the Purchase Agreement by Lincoln Park, inclusive of the $0.9 million already received for sales of shares prior to June 20, 2014. The extent we rely on Lincoln Park as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors including, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from Lincoln Park were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, we will need to secure another source of funding in order to satisfy our working capital needs. Even if we sell all $40,000,000 under the Purchase Agreement to Lincoln Park, we may still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. We are anticipating that, with the growth of the current generic product line consisting of generic phentermine tablets and capsules, hydromorphone, naltrexone, methadone, phendimetrazine and immediate release Lodrane D®, combined with the successful transfer of manufacturing site and commercial launch of the 12 approved generic products licensed to Epic Pharma LLC and other opportunities in our pipeline, Elite eventually could be profitable. However, there can be no assurances that we will be able to timely raise additional funds, if needed, on acceptable terms through the Purchase Agreement or otherwise, that the sales of the current generic product line will continue, that the 12 approved generic products licensed to Epic Pharma LLC will be successfully commercialization and generate future revenues or that the other opportunities in our pipeline will be successfully commercialized. There can also be no assurances of Elite becoming profitable To sustain operations and meet our business objectives we must be able to commercialize our products and other products or pipeline opportunities. If we are unable to timely obtain additional financing, if necessary, and/or we are unable to timely generate greater revenues from our operations, we will be required to reduce and, possibly, cease operations and liquidate our assets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to commercialize the new opportunities, or consummate such other financing or strategic alternative in the time necessary to avoid the cessation of our operations and liquidation of our assets. 24 We are in default on our obligations under the NJEDA Bonds. If we are unable to work out an arrangement to delay payment, repay or otherwise cure or settle this default, our ability to operate in the future will be materially and adversely affected. We are in default of our obligations on a loan through tax-exempt bonds from the New Jersey Economic Development Authority (“NJEDA”). Our liability under this obligation as of March 31, 2014 was approximately $3.4 million. Our real property and the improvements thereon are encumbered by a mortgage in favor of as security for a loan through the NJEDA Bonds. We have received Notices of Default from the Trustee in relation to the utilization of the debt service reserve fund for of semi-annual interest payments from March 2009 to the present and for the non-payment of principal amounts due on September 1, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. On June 20, 2014, subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2014 and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the bond indenture, the Company provided to the Trustee of the NJEDA Bonds written notice of its intent to redeem those bonds which were due and payable as of the same date. The bond indenture requires that the Company provide the Trustee with 60 days written notice (or such shorter period agreeable to the Trustee), and that the Trustee would then notify the Depository Trust Company (“DTC”) of the bonds which are to be redeemed. The DTC is then required to provide to the applicable bondholders notice of no less than 30 days nor more than 45 notice of the redemption. Through the written notification, the Company has advised the Trustee of its ability and intentions to pay all amounts due and owing currently and separately, has advised the Trustee of its ability and intentions to pay the principal and interest payments which are due and payable on September 1, 2014. The Company is cooperating with the Trustee to redeem all bonds currently due and owing, as well as those due on September 1, 2014, with the objective of curing all monetary defaults and achieving full compliance with the terms and conditions of the bonds as soon as possible. While the Company has replenished all amounts withdrawn from the debt service reserve fund in accordance with the terms of the bond agreement, is in the process of paying all amounts in arrears and is also able to make the annual principal payment and semi-annual interest payment due on September 1, 2014 without utilizing the debt service reserve fund, there can be no assurances of the Company being able to make future semi-annual interest payments without utilizing the debt service reserve fund, nor can there be assurances of the Company being able to replenish the debt service reserve fund in the future. In addition, there can be no assurances of the Company being able to pay the principal payments which are due in the future We believe that the successful resolution of the bond defaults will have a significant and positive effect on the Company’s ability to operate as a going concern. For more information on the NJEDA Bonds, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; Liquidity and Capital Resources; NJEDA Bonds”. Elite’s pipeline consists of products in various stages of development, including products in early development. Elite’s product pipeline, including its abuse deterrent opioid products, are in various stages of development. Prior to commercialization, product development must be completed that could include scale-up, clinical studies, regulatory filing, regulatory review, approval by the FDA, and/or other development steps. Additionally, Elite has 12 approved generic products for which a site transfer must be completed prior to product launches. For these generic products, Elite must complete site transfer studies, file a changes being effective in 30 days (CBE 30) and await FDA review and approval. Development is subject to risks. We cannot assure you that development will be successful, or that during development unexpected delays might occur or additional costs might be incurred. 25 If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We need FDA approval prior to marketing our product candidates in the United States of America. If we fail to obtain FDA approval to market our product candidates, we will be unable to sell our product candidates in the United States of America and we will not generate any revenue from the sale of such products. This regulatory review and approval process, which includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We cannot predict if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. Any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. If the FDA does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or we may be required to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the FDA to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon our applications for approval. We will also be subject to a wide variety of foreign regulations governing the development, manufacture and marketing of our products. Whether or not an FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time needed to secure approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We cannot assure you that clinical trials conducted in one country will be accepted by other countries or that approval of our product in one country will result in approval in any other country. Before we can obtain regulatory approval, we need to successfully complete clinical trials, outcomes of which are uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we must demonstrate proof of safety and effectiveness in humans. To meet these requirements, we must conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. Completion of necessary clinical trials may take several years or more. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: 26 ·ineffectiveness of our product candidate or perceptions by physicians that the product candidate is not safe or effective for a particular indication; ·inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials; ·delay or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or institutional review boards; ·slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; inability to adequately follow and monitor patients after treatment; difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; ·unforeseen safety issues; ·government or regulatory delays; and ·clinical trial costs that are greater than we currently anticipate. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a clinical trial or require us to conduct additional trials. We do not know whether our existing or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons, including if the FDA or we believe the patients participating in our trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will directly delay our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships, and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical community. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts may not result in any commercially viable products. Any delay in, or termination of, our preclinical or clinical trials will delay the filing of our drug applications with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. If a significant portion of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained, or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. If our collaboration or licensing arrangements are unsuccessful, our revenues and product development may be limited. We have entered into several collaborations and licensing arrangements for the development of products. However, there can be no assurance that any of these agreements will result in FDA approvals, or that we will be able to market any such finished products at a profit. Collaboration and licensing arrangements pose the following risks: 27 ·collaborations and licensing arrangements may be terminated, in which case we will experience increased operating expenses and capital requirements if we elect to pursue further development of the related product candidate; ·collaborators and licensees may delay clinical trials and prolong clinical development, under-fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate; ·expected revenue might not be generated because milestones may not be achieved and product candidates may not be developed; ·collaborators and licensees could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; ·the terms of our contracts with current or future collaborators and licensees may not be favorable to us in the future; ·a collaborator or licensee with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; ·disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in significant and costly litigation or arbitration; and ·one or more third-party developers could obtain approval for a similar product prior to the collaborator or licensee resulting in unforeseen price competition in connection with the development product. We have been dependent on one or a few major customers. If we are unable to develop more customers our business most likely will be adversely affected Each year we have had one or a few customers that have accounted for a large percentage of our limited revenues therefore the termination of a contract with a customer may result in the loss of substantially all of our revenues. We are constantly working to develop new relationships with existing or new customers, but despite these efforts we may not, at the time that any of our current contracts expire, have other contracts in place generating similar or material revenue. We have agreements with ECR and Precision Dose for the sales and distribution of products that we manufacture. We receive revenues to manufacture these products and also receive a profit split or royalties based on in-market sales of the products. In April 2011, we ceased production of the Lodrane Extended Release Products, which are the subject of the agreements with ECR, pursuant to the FDA’s announcement of its intention to remove approximately 500 cough/cold and allergy related products from the US market, including the Lodrane Extended Release Products. After this announcement by the FDA, the Company’s customer for the Lodrane Extended Release Products cancelled all outstanding orders and manufacturing of the Lodrane Extended Release Products has ceased. The Lodrane Extended Release Products for which production has ceased were responsible for 97% of the Company’s revenues during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. The cessation of production of the Lodrane Extended Release Products has had a material adverse effect on Elite’s revenues for all periods beginning after March 31, 2011. 28 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or avoid claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, our ability to conduct business may be impaired. Our success depends on our ability to protect our current and future products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We currently hold eight patents and we have five patents pending. We intend to file further patent applications in the future. We cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. If patents are issued, third parties may sue us to challenge our patent protection, and although we know of no reason why they should prevail, it is possible that they could. It is likewise possible that our patent rights may not prevent or limit our present and future competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents, or other proprietary rights of third parties, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies as they relate to other persons’ technologies. At such time as we discover a need to obtain any such license, we will need to establish whether we will be able to obtain such a license on favorable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products. We rely particularly on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. We cannot provide assurance that these agreements will not be breached or circumvented. We also cannot be certain that there will be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become or obtained by other entities or become known, obtained or independently developed by our competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, efforts to ensure our intellectual property rights can be costly, time-consuming and/or ultimately unsuccessful. Litigation is common in the pharmaceutical industry, and can be protracted and expensive and could delay and/or prevent entry of our products into the market, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights can be protracted and expensive. Companies routinely bring litigation against applicants and allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant. Elite develops, owns and/or manufactures generic and branded pharmaceutical products and such drug products may be subject to such litigation. Litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our products. There may also be situations where we use our business judgment and decide to market and sell products, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts. The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent owner and not by the profits earned by the infringer. In the case of a willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be trebled. Moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented brand products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent products. An adverse decision in a case such as this or in other similar litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Stock to decline. 29 Please note that in May 2014, Precision Dose Inc, the parent company of TAGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., commenced an arbitration alleging that we failed to properly supply, price and satisfy gross profit minimums regarding Phentermine 37.5mg tablets, as required by the parties’ agreements. We deny Precision Dose’s allegations and have counterclaimed that Precision Dose is no longer entitled to exclusivity rights with respect to Phentermine 37.5mg tablets, and is responsible for certain costs, expenses, price increases and lost profits relating to Phentermine 37.5mg tablets and the parties’ agreements. Please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” below. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could impair our ability to implement our business model. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in each field are made and become more widely known. An increasing number of pharmaceutical companies have been or are becoming interested in the development and commercialization of products incorporating advanced or novel drug delivery systems. We expect that competition in the field of drug delivery will increase in the future as other specialized research and development companies begin to concentrate on this aspect of the business. Some of the major pharmaceutical companies have invested and are continuing to invest significant resources in the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies and some have invested funds in specialized drug delivery companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Such companies may develop new formulations and products, or may improve existing ones, more efficiently than we can. Our success, if any, will depend in part on our ability to keep pace with the changing technology in the fields in which we operate. As we expand our presence in the generic pharmaceuticals market our product candidates may face intense competition from brand-name companies that have taken aggressive steps to thwart competition from generic companies. In particular, brand-name companies continue to sell or license their products directly or through licensing arrangements or strategic alliances with generic pharmaceutical companies (so-called “authorized generics”). No significant regulatory approvals are required for a brand-name company to sell directly or through a third party to the generic market, and brand-name companies do not face any other significant barriers to entry into such market. In addition, such companies continually seek to delay generic introductions and to decrease the impact of generic competition, using tactics which include: ·obtaining new patents on drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire; ·filing patent applications that are more complex and costly to challenge; ·filing suits for patent infringement that automatically delay approval from the FDA; ·filing citizens’ petitions with the FDA contesting approval of the generic versions of products due to alleged health and safety issues; developing controlled-release or other “next-generation” products, which often reduce demand for the generic version of the existing product for which we may be seeking approval; ·changing product claims and product labeling; 30 ·developing and marketing as over-the-counter products those branded products which are about to face generic competition; and ·making arrangements with managed care companies and insurers to reduce the economic incentives to purchase generic pharmaceuticals. These strategies may increase the costs and risks associated with our efforts to introduce our generic products under development and may delay or prevent such introduction altogether. If our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community, they will not be commercially successful and our business will be adversely affected. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community will depend on a number of factors, including: ·acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; ·relative convenience and ease of administration; ·the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; ·availability of alternative treatments; ·pricing and cost effectiveness; ·effectiveness of sales and marketing strategies; and ·ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance for our product candidates, then such product candidates will not be commercially successful and our business will be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers for our raw materials and any delay or unavailability of raw materials can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier, FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers and there is a risk of a sole approved supplier significantly raising prices. Please note that such an occurrence has taken place recently, wherein significant price increases from a sole supplier greatly reduced profit margins, sales and delayed product launches. These occurrences were ultimately resolved by the successful FDA approval of an alternate supplier, with such approval process being lengthy and costly. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including, without limitation: ·greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; ·the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; ·interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and ·uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. 31 In addition, patent laws in certain foreign jurisdictions (primarily in Europe) may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for research and development prior to expiration of applicable United States or foreign patents. Any delay or inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases that cannot be passed on to customers, can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. This can materially adversely affect our business and operations. Even after regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing significant regulatory obligations and oversight as evidenced by the FDA’s removal from the market of our Lodrane® extended release product line. In addition, although Lodrane D® is marketed under the Over-the-Counter Monograph and, accordingly, can be lawfully marketed in the US without prior regulatory approval, the FDA has revised its enforcement policies during the past few years, significantly limiting the circumstances under which unapproved products may be marketed. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for a particular product candidate, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of such products, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. Following any regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements, and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our product candidates here or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our products, implement changes to or obtain re-approvals of our contract manufacturers’ facilities or withdraw the product from the market. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our reputation in the marketplace may suffer and we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products. On March 4, 2011, the FDA issued a directive removing from the market approximately 500 cough/cold and allergy products, including our Lodrane® extended release product line. The Lodrane® extended release products constituted approximately 97% of our revenues at the time of FDA’s directive. Lodrane D® is marketed under the Over-the-Counter Monograph (the “OTC Monograph”) and accordingly, under the Code of Federal Regulations can be lawfully marketed in the US without prior approval. Under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”), FDA regulations and statements of FDA policy, certain drug products are permitted to be marketed in the U.S. without prior approval. Within the past few years, the FDA has revised its enforcement policies, significantly limiting the circumstances under which these unapproved products may be marketed. If the FDA determines that a company is distributing an unapproved product that requires approval, the FDA may take enforcement action in a variety of ways, including, without limitation, product seizures and seeking a judicial injunction against distribution. 32 If key personnel were to leave us or if we are unsuccessful in attracting qualified personnel, our ability to develop products could be materially harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and business personnel experienced in the development, manufacture and marketing of oral, controlled-release drug delivery systems and generic products. Our business and financial results could be materially harmed by the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel. If we were sued on a product liability claim, an award could exceed our insurance coverage and cost us significantly. The design, development and manufacture of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. We have procured product liability insurance; however, a successful claim against us in excess of the policy limits could be very expensive to us, damaging our financial position. The amount of our insurance coverage, which has been limited due to our limited financial resources, may be materially below the coverage maintained by many of the other companies engaged in similar activities. To the best of our knowledge, no product liability claim has been made against us as of the date hereof. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The market price for the publicly traded stock of pharmaceutical companies is generally characterized by high volatility. There has been significant volatility in the market prices for our Common Stock. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2014, the closing sale price on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTC-BB”) of our Common Stock fluctuated from a high of $0.94 per share to a low of $0.07 per share. The price per share of our Common Stock may not exceed or even remain at current levels in the future. The market price of our Common Stock may be affected by a number of factors, including, without limitation: ·Results of our clinical trials; ·Approval or disapproval of our ANDAs or NDAs; ·Announcements of innovations, new products or new patents by us or by our competitors; ·Governmental regulation; ·Patent or proprietary rights developments; ·Proxy contests or litigation; ·News regarding the efficacy of, safety of or demand for drugs or drug technologies; ·Economic and market conditions, generally and related to the pharmaceutical industry; ·Healthcare legislation; ·Changes in third-party reimbursement policies for drugs; and ·Fluctuations in our operating results. The sale or issuance of our common stock to Lincoln Park or upon conversion of outstanding preferred stock or exercise of outstanding warrants may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Lincoln Park or the issuance of shares upon conversion or exercise of outstanding preferred stock and warrants, or the perception that such sales and issuances may occur, could cause the price of our common stock to fall. On April 10, 2014, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park, pursuant to which Lincoln Park has committed to purchase up to $40,000,000 of our common stock. Concurrently with the execution of the Purchase Agreement, we issued 1,928,641 shares of our common stock to Lincoln Park as a fee for its commitment to purchase shares of our common stock under the Purchase Agreement. The purchase shares that may be sold pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may be sold by us to Lincoln Park at our discretion from time to time over a 36-month period that commenced on May 1, 2014. The purchase price for the shares that we may sell to Lincoln Park under the Purchase Agreement will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock. Depending on market liquidity at the time, sales of such shares may cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. 33 We generally have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Lincoln Park, except that, pursuant to the terms of our agreements with Lincoln Park, we would be unable to sell shares to Lincoln Park if and when the closing sale price of our common stock is below $0.10 per share, subject to adjustment as set forth in the Purchase Agreement, and in no event would Lincoln Park purchase more than $760,000 worth of our common stock on any single business day, plus an additional “accelerated amount” under certain circumstances. Additional sales of our common stock, if any, to Lincoln Park will depend upon market conditions and other factors to be determined by us. Lincoln Park may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the shares of our common stock that may be sold pursuant to the Purchase Agreement and, after it has acquired shares, Lincoln Park may sell all, some or none of those shares. In addition, as of June 20, 2014, there were outstanding shares of preferred stock convertible into approximately 148.9 million shares of Common Stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 99.1 million shares of Common Stock at exercise prices that range from $0.625 per share to $0.25 per share. Additional shares of Common Stock may be issuable as a result of anti-dilution provisions in the outstanding preferred stock and warrants As a result of the above discussed potential issuance of securities, such issuances by us could result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to Lincoln Park or pursuant to the conversion or exercise of outstanding shares of preferred stock and warrants, or the anticipation of such issuances, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. Raising of additional funding through sales of our securities could cause existing holders of our Common Stock to experience substantial dilution. Any additional financing that involves the further sale of our securities could cause existing holders of our Common Stock to experience substantial dilution. On the other hand, if we incurred debt, we would be subject to risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates might fluctuate and cash flow would be insufficient to pay principal and interest on such indebtedness. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or our preferred stock could make a change of control more difficult to achieve. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or the issuance of shares of an additional series of preferred stock could be used to make a change of control of us more difficult and expensive. Under certain circumstances, such shares could be used to create impediments to, or frustrate persons seeking to cause, a takeover or to gain control of us. Such shares could be sold to purchasers who might side with our Board of Directors in opposing a takeover bid that the Board of Directors determines not to be in the best interests of our shareholders. It might also have the effect of discouraging an attempt by another person or entity through the acquisition of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock to acquire control of us with a view to consummating a merger, sale of all or part of our assets, or a similar transaction, since the issuance of new shares could be used to dilute the stock ownership of such person or entity. 34 Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws could defer a change of our Management which could discourage or delay offers to acquire us. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws law may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us or for our shareholders to remove existing management, and might discourage a third party from offering to acquire us, even if a change in control or in Management would be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, as discussed above, our Articles of Incorporation allows us to issue shares of preferred stock without any vote or further action by our shareholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further shareholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In this regard, on November 15, 2013, we entered into a Shareholder Rights Plan and, under the Rights Plan, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one Right for each outstanding share of our common stock and one right for each share of Common Stock into which any of our outstanding Preferred Stock is convertible, to shareholders of record at the close of business on that date. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one “Unit” consisting of one one-millionth (1/1,000,000) of a share of Series H Junior Participating preferred stock, at a purchase price of $2.10 per Unit, subject to adjustment, and may be redeemed prior to November 15, 2023, the expiration date, at $0.000001 per Right, unless earlier redeemed by the Company. The Rights generally are not transferable apart from the common stock and will not be exercisable unless and until a person or group acquires or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock. However, for Mr. Hakim, our Chief Executive Officer, the Rights Plan’s the 15% threshold excludes shares beneficially owned by him as of November 15, 2013 and all shares issuable to him pursuant to his employment agreement and the Mikah Note. Our By-Laws provide for the classification of our Board of Directors into three classes. Our Common Stock is considered a “penny stock”. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our Common Stock could limit the trading and liquidity of our Common Stock, adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and increase the transaction costs to sell shares of our Common Stock. Our common stock is a “low-priced” security or “penny stock” under rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealers duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low- priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will likely decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our Common Stock, will decrease liquidity of our Common Stock and will increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our Common Stock as compared to other securities. 35 Our Common Stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is a quotation system, not an issuer listing service, market or exchange, therefore, buying and selling stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is not as efficient as buying and selling stock through an exchange. As a result, it may be difficult to sell our Common Stock for an optimum trading price or at all. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”) is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume limitations in over-the-counter securities. Because trades and quotations on the OTCBB involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our Common Stock at the optimum trading prices. When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTCBB, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Lower trading volumes in a security may result in a lower likelihood of an individual’s orders being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price one was quoted by the OTCBB at the time of the order entry. Orders for OTCBB securities may be canceled or edited like orders for other securities. All requests to change or cancel an order must be submitted to, received and processed by the OTCBB. Due to the manual order processing involved in handling OTCBB trades, order processing and reporting may be delayed, and an individual may not be able to cancel or edit his order. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of Common Stock at the optimum trading prices. The dealer’s spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of securities on the OTCBB if the Common Stock or other security must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of securities may incur an immediate “paper” loss due to the price spread. Moreover, dealers trading on the OTCBB may not have a bid price for securities bought and sold through the OTCBB. Due to the foregoing, demand for securities that are traded through the OTCBB may be decreased or eliminated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 