ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in us and in analyzing our forward-looking statements. 13 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a relatively limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Although we have been in operation since 1990, we have a relatively short operating history and limited financial data upon which you may evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our business model is likely to continue to evolve as we attempt to expand our product offerings and our presence in the generic pharmaceutical market. As a result, our potential for future profitability must be considered in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies that are attempting to move into new markets and continuing to innovate with new and unproven technologies. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: · develop new products; · obtain regulatory approval of our products; · manage our growth, control expenditures and align costs with revenues; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · respond to competitive developments. If we do not effectively address the risks we face, our business model may become unworkable and we may not achieve or sustain profitability or successfully develop any products. We have not been profitable and expect future losses. To date, we have not been profitable and we may never be profitable or, if we become profitable, we may be unable to sustain profitability. We have sustained losses in each year since our incorporation in 1990. For the past two years, we incurred net losses of $8,056,874 and $6,604,708, respectively. We expect to continue to incur losses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues to support our operations and offset operating costs. There is doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. On June 21, 2010, we had cash reserves of approximately $400,000 which permits us to continue at our anticipated level of operations, including, but not limited to, the continued development of our pipeline products, through July 2011. The completion of all transactions contemplated by the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, including the consummation of the third closing thereof, will provide additional funds to permit us to continue development of our product pipeline for more than 2 years. Beyond 2 years, we are anticipating that, with growth of Lodrane; the launch of the ANDA for the methadone product that was approved last year with our co-development partner, The PharmaNetwork; and the launch of the generic hydromorphone product that we purchased, Elite could be profitable. In addition, the commercialization of the Epic products developed under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement will add a new revenue source for Elite. However, there can be no assurances as to the success of the development of such Epic products or the commercialization of such Epic products. Despite the successful completion of the initial and second closings of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, there can be no assurances that we will be able to consummate the third and quarterly payment closings pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. If such transactions are consummated, we will receive additional cash proceeds of $1.6875 million. Even if we were able to successfully complete the third and quarterly payment closings of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, we still may be required to seek additional capital in the future and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain such additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. For additional information regarding the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, please see our disclosures under “Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in our Current Reports on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009, May 6, 2009 and June 5, 2009, which are incorporated herein by reference. If we are unable to obtain additional financing needed for the expenditures for the development and commercialization of our drug products, it would impair our ability to continue to meet our business objectives. We continue to require additional financing to ensure that we will be able to meet our expenditures to develop and commercialize our products. As of June 21, 2010 we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $400,000. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents plus revenues from sale of our Lodrane 24® and Lodrane 24D® products will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses and capital requirements through July 2011. We will require additional funding in order to continue to operate thereafter. If the third and quarterly payment closings of the transactions contemplated by the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement are not closed on a timely basis, or if another financing or strategic alternative providing sufficient resources to allow us to continue operations is not consummated upon exhaustion of our current capital, we will be required to cease operations and liquidate our assets. No assurance can be given that we will be able to consummate the third and quarterly payment closings under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement on a timely basis, or consummate such other financing or strategic alternative in the time necessary to avoid the cessation of our operations and liquidation of our assets. Moreover, even if we consummate the third and quarterly payment closings under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, or such other financing or strategic alternative, we may be required to seek additional capital in the future and there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. 14 If Novel Laboratories issues additional equity in the future our equity interest in Novel may be diluted, resulting in a decrease in our share of any dividends or other distributions which Novel may issue in the future. As a result of our determination not to fund our remaining contributions to Novel at the valuation set forth in the Novel Alliance Agreement and the resulting purchase from us of a portion of our shares of Class A Voting Common Stock of Novel by VGS Pharma, LLC, our remaining ownership interest in equity of Novel was reduced to approximately 10% of the outstanding shares of Novel. Novel may seek to raise additional operating capital in the future and may do so by the issuance of equity. If Novel issues additional equity, our future equity interest in Novel will decrease and we will be entitled to a decreased portion of any dividends or other distributions which Novel may issue in the future. Novel also has a company sponsored stock option plan and any equity issued from this stock plan will also reduce Elite’s equity interest in Novel. Substantially all of our product candidates are at an early stage of development and only a portion of these are in clinical development. ELI-154 and ELI-216 are pre-Phase III and two of our generic products are still at an early stage of development. Other than Lodrane 24® and Lodrane 24D®, which are commercial drug products, and a generic drug product for which an ANDA was approved in 2009 and a generic drug product which Elite purchased in 2010, we will need to perform additional development work for the additional product candidates in our pipeline before we can seek the regulatory approvals necessary to begin commercial sales. If we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements, we may not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We need FDA approval prior to marketing our product candidates in the United States of America. If we fail to obtain FDA approval to market our product candidates, we will be unable to sell our product candidates in the United States of America and we will not generate any revenue from the sale of such products. This regulatory review and approval process, which includes evaluation of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To receive approval, we must, among other things, demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are both safe and effective for each indication where approval is sought. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes several years and the time needed to satisfy them may vary substantially, based on the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical product. We cannot predict if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. Any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. If the FDA does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical or manufacturing validation studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed by several years, or we may be required to expend more resources than we have available. It is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the FDA to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to abandon our applications for approval. 15 We will also be subject to a wide variety of foreign regulations governing the development, manufacture and marketing of our products. Whether or not an FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country and the time needed to secure approval may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. We cannot assure you that clinical trials conducted in one country will be accepted by other countries or that approval of our product in one country will result in approval in any other country. Before we can obtain regulatory approval, we need to successfully complete clinical trials, outcomes of which are uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we must demonstrate proof of safety and effectiveness in humans. To meet these requirements, we must conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. Completion of necessary clinical trials may take several years or more. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: · ineffectiveness of our product candidate or perceptions by physicians that the product candidate is not safe or effective for a particular indication; · inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in clinical trials; · delay or failure in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocols from the FDA or institutional review boards; · slower than expected rate of patient recruitment and enrollment; · inability to adequately follow and monitor patients after treatment; · difficulty in managing multiple clinical sites; · unforeseen safety issues; · government or regulatory delays; and · clinical trial costs that are greater than we currently anticipate. Even if we achieve positive interim results in clinical trials, these results do not necessarily predict final results, and positive results in early trials may not be indicative of success in later trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a clinical trial or require us to conduct additional trials. We do not know whether our existing or any future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time for a variety of reasons, including if the FDA or we believe the patients participating in our trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the conduct of these trials. Failures or perceived failures in our clinical trials will directly delay our product development and regulatory approval process, damage our business prospects, make it difficult for us to establish collaboration and partnership relationships, and negatively affect our reputation and competitive position in the pharmaceutical community. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts may not result in any commercially viable products. Any delay in, or termination of, our preclinical or clinical trials will delay the filing of our drug applications with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. If a significant portion of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained, or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. 16 If our collaboration or licensing arrangements are unsuccessful, our revenues and product development may be limited. We have entered into several collaborations and licensing arrangements for the development of generic products. However, there can be no assurance that any of these agreements will result in FDA approvals, or that we will be able to market any such finished products at a profit. Collaboration and licensing arrangements pose the following risks: · collaborations and licensing arrangements may be terminated, in which case we will experience increased operating expenses and capital requirements if we elect to pursue further development of the related product candidate; · collaborators and licensees may delay clinical trials and prolong clinical development, under-fund a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate; · expected revenue might not be generated because milestones may not be achieved and product candidates may not be developed; · collaborators and licensees could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with our future products; · the terms of our contracts with current or future collaborators and licensees may not be favorable to us in the future; · a collaborator or licensee with marketing and distribution rights to one or more of our products may not commit enough resources to the marketing and distribution of our products, limiting our potential revenues from the commercialization of a product; · disputes may arise delaying or terminating the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in significant and costly litigation or arbitration; · one or more third-party developers could obtain approval for a similar product prior to the collaborator or licensee resulting in unforeseen price competition in connection with the development product; and · Epic may decide that the further or continuing development of one or more of the eight designated drug products being developed by Epic at our facility is no longer commercially feasible, delaying a potential source of revenue to us pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. In addition, there can be no assurance that any drug product designated by the parties as a replacement would be as strong a candidate for commercial viability as the drug product that it replaced. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or avoid claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, our ability to conduct business may be impaired. Our success depends on our ability to protect our current and future products and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We currently hold five patents and we have four patents pending. We intend to file further patent applications in the future. We cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. If patents are issued, third parties may sue us to challenge our patent protection, and although we know of no reason why they should prevail, it is possible that they could. It is likewise possible that our patent rights may not prevent or limit our present and future competitors from developing, using or commercializing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents, or other proprietary rights of third parties, in connection with the development and use of our products and technologies as they relate to other persons’ technologies. At such time as we discover a need to obtain any such license, we will need to establish whether we will be able to obtain such a license on favorable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could preclude the sale, manufacture or distribution of our products. 17 We rely particularly on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary expertise and continuing innovation that we seek to protect, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. We cannot provide assurance that these agreements will not be breached or circumvented. We also cannot be certain that there will be adequate remedies in the event of a breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to these products. In addition, efforts to ensure our intellectual property rights can be costly, time-consuming and/or ultimately unsuccessful. Litigation is common in our industry, particularly the generic pharmaceutical industry, and can be protracted and expensive and could delay and/or prevent entry of our products into the market, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Litigation concerning patents and proprietary rights can be protracted and expensive. Companies that produce brand pharmaceutical products routinely bring litigation against applicants that seek FDA approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products. These companies allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant. Because the eight drug products being developed by Epic at the Facility are generics, such drug products may be subject to such litigation brought by companies that produce brand pharmaceutical products. If Epic were to become subject to litigation in connection with any drug products it is developing at the Facility under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Epic may choose to, or be required to, decrease or cease its development and commercialization of such product for an indefinite period of time, which may prevent or delay the first commercial sale of such product and cause us to receive reduced or no product fees payable to us by Epic based on the commercial sales of such product in accordance with the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement. Likewise, other patent holders may bring patent infringement suits against us alleging that our products, product candidates and technologies infringe upon intellectual property rights. Litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our products. There may also be situations where we use our business judgment and decide to market and sell products, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts. The risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent owner and not by the profits earned by the infringer. In the case of a willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be trebled. Moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented brand products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent products. An adverse decision in a case such as this or in other similar litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our Common Stock to decline. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change, which could impair our ability to implement our business model. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is undergoing rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances in each field are made and become more widely known. An increasing number of pharmaceutical companies have been or are becoming interested in the development and commercialization of products incorporating advanced or novel drug delivery systems. We expect that competition in the field of drug delivery will increase in the future as other specialized research and development companies begin to concentrate on this aspect of the business. Some of the major pharmaceutical companies have invested and are continuing to invest significant resources in the development of their own drug delivery systems and technologies and some have invested funds in specialized drug delivery companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, research and development, marketing and other resources than we do. Such companies may develop new formulations and products, or may improve existing ones, more efficiently than we can. Our success, if any, will depend in part on our ability to keep pace with the changing technology in the fields in which we operate. 18 As we expand our presence in the generic pharmaceuticals market our product candidates may face intense competition from brand-name companies that have taken aggressive steps to thwart competition from generic companies. In particular, brand-name companies continue to sell or license their products directly or through licensing arrangements or strategic alliances with generic pharmaceutical companies (so-called “authorized generics”). No significant regulatory approvals are required for a brand-name company to sell directly or through a third party to the generic market, and brand-name companies do not face any other significant barriers to entry into such market. In addition, such companies continually seek to delay generic introductions and to decrease the impact of generic competition, using tactics which include: · obtaining new patents on drugs whose original patent protection is about to expire; · filing patent applications that are more complex and costly to challenge; · filing suits for patent infringement that automatically delay approval from the FDA; · filing citizens’ petitions with the FDA contesting approval of the generic versions of products due to alleged health and safety issues; · developing controlled-release or other “next-generation” products, which often reduce demand for the generic version of the existing product for which we may be seeking approval; · changing product claims and product labeling; · developing and marketing as over-the-counter products those branded products which are about to face generic competition; and · making arrangements with managed care companies and insurers to reduce the economic incentives to purchase generic pharmaceuticals. These strategies may increase the costs and risks associated with our efforts to introduce our generic products under development and may delay or prevent such introduction altogether. If our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community, they will not be commercially successful and our business will be adversely affected. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community will depend on a number of factors, including: · acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; · relative convenience and ease of administration; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · availability of alternative treatments; · pricing and cost effectiveness; · effectiveness of sales and marketing strategies; and · ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If we are unable to achieve market acceptance for our product candidates, then such product candidates will not be commercially successful and our business will be adversely affected. We are dependent on a small number of suppliers for our raw materials and any delay or unavailability of raw materials can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. The FDA requires identification of raw material suppliers in applications for approval of drug products. If raw materials were unavailable from a specified supplier, FDA approval of a new supplier could delay the manufacture of the drug involved. In addition, some materials used in our products are currently available from only one supplier or a limited number of suppliers. Further, a significant portion of our raw materials may be available only from foreign sources. Foreign sources can be subject to the special risks of doing business abroad, including: · greater possibility for disruption due to transportation or communication problems; 19 · the relative instability of some foreign governments and economies; · interim price volatility based on labor unrest, materials or equipment shortages, export duties, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · uncertainty regarding recourse to a dependable legal system for the enforcement of contracts and other rights. We have recently experienced delays when passing imported raw materials through customs. We have also had a shipment for one of the imported raw materials used to manufacture the products made for ECR Pharmaceuticals rejected at customs under Federal Drug & Cosmetic Act (FD&CA) Sections 502(f)(1) and 801(a)(3). ECR Pharmaceuticals is responsible for the regulatory matters related to these products. We have notified ECR Pharmaceuticals and they have initiated a discussion with the FDA. If rejection of this raw material at customs continues, it could prevent us from manufacturing these products. In addition, recent changes in patent laws in certain foreign jurisdictions (primarily in Europe) may make it increasingly difficult to obtain raw materials for research and development prior to expiration of applicable United States or foreign patents. Any delay or inability to obtain raw materials on a timely basis, or any significant price increases that cannot be passed on to customers, can materially adversely affect our ability to produce products. This can materially adversely affect our business and operations. Even after regulatory approval, we will be subject to ongoing significant regulatory obligations and oversight. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for a particular product candidate, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of such products, or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies. Following any regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements, and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our product candidates here or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our products, implement changes to or obtain re-approvals of our contract manufacturers’ facilities or withdraw the product from the market. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our reputation in the marketplace may suffer and we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events could harm or prevent sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing these products. If key personnel were to leave us or if we are unsuccessful in attracting qualified personnel, our ability to develop products could be materially harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and business personnel experienced in the development, manufacture and marketing of oral, controlled-release drug delivery systems and generic products. Our business and financial results could be materially harmed by the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel. If we were sued on a product liability claim, an award could exceed our insurance coverage and cost us significantly. The design, development and manufacture of our products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. We have procured product liability insurance; however, a successful claim against us in excess of the policy limits could be very expensive to us, damaging our financial position. The amount of our insurance coverage, which has been limited due to our limited financial resources, may be materially below the coverage maintained by many of the other companies engaged in similar activities. To the best of our knowledge, no product liability claim has been made against us as of March 31, 2010. 20 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Future sales of our Common Stock could lower the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares in the public market could harm the market price of our Common Stock, even if our business is doing well. A significant number of shares of our Common Stock are eligible for sale in the public market under Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), subject in some cases to volume and other limitations. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our Common Stock. Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. The market price for the publicly traded stock of pharmaceutical companies is generally characterized by high volatility. There has been significant volatility in the market prices for our Common Stock. For the twelve months ended March 31, 2010, the closing sale price on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTC-BB”) of our Common Stock fluctuated from a high of $0.20 per share to a low of $0.06 per share. The price per share of our Common Stock may not exceed or even remain at current levels in the future. The market price of our Common Stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: · Results of our clinical trials; · Approval or disapproval of our ANDAs or NDAs; · Announcements of innovations, new products or new patents by us or by our competitors; · Governmental regulation; · Patent or proprietary rights developments; · Proxy contests or litigation; · News regarding the efficacy of, safety of or demand for drugs or drug technologies; · Economic and market conditions, generally and related to the pharmaceutical industry; · Healthcare legislation; · Changes in third-party reimbursement policies for drugs; · Fluctuations in our operating results; · Commercial success of the eight drug products of Epic identified under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement; and · Our ability to consummate the third closing of the transactions contemplated by the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement Our Common Stock is considered a “penny stock”. The application of the “penny stock” rules to our Common Stock could limit the trading and liquidity of our Common Stock, adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and increase the transaction costs to sell shares of our Common Stock. Our common stock is a “low-priced” security or “penny stock” under rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In accordance with these rules, broker-dealers participating in transactions in low-priced securities must first deliver a risk disclosure document which describes the risks associated with such stocks, the broker-dealers duties in selling the stock, the customer’s rights and remedies and certain market and other information. Furthermore, the broker-dealer must make a suitability determination approving the customer for low-priced stock transactions based on the customer’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives. Broker-dealers must also disclose these restrictions in writing to the customer, obtain specific written consent from the customer, and provide monthly account statements to the customer. The effect of these restrictions will likely decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, will decrease liquidity of our common stock and will increase transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common stock as compared to other securities. We voluntarily delisted our Common Stock from NYSE Amex in May 2009. Our Common Stock is now quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is a quotation system, not an issuer listing service, market or exchange, therefore, buying and selling stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board is not as efficient as buying and selling stock through an exchange. As a result, it may be difficult to sell our Common Stock for an optimum trading price or at all. 21 The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”) is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last sale prices and volume limitations in over-the-counter securities. Because trades and quotations on the OTCBB involve a manual process, the market information for such securities cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations may result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting and the delivery of legal trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at the optimum trading prices. When fewer shares of a security are being traded on the OTCBB, volatility of prices may increase and price movement may outpace the ability to deliver accurate quote information. Lower trading volumes in a security may result in a lower likelihood of an individual’s orders being executed, and current prices may differ significantly from the price one was quoted by the OTCBB at the time of the order entry. Orders for OTCBB securities may be canceled or edited like orders for other securities. All requests to change or cancel an order must be submitted to, received and processed by the OTCBB. Due to the manual order processing involved in handling OTCBB trades, order processing and reporting may be delayed, and an individual may not be able to cancel or edit his order. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of common stock at the optimum trading prices. The dealer’s spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of securities on the OTCBB if the common stock or other security must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of securities may incur an immediate “paper” loss due to the price spread. Moreover, dealers trading on the OTCBB may not have a bid price for securities bought and sold through the OTCBB. Due to the foregoing, demand for securities that are traded through the OTCBB may be decreased or eliminated. Raising of additional funding through sales of our securities could cause existing holders of our Common Stock to experience substantial dilution. Any financing that involves the further sale of our securities could cause existing holders of our Common Stock to experience substantial dilution. On the other hand, if we incurred debt, we would be subject to risks associated with indebtedness, including the risk that interest rates might fluctuate and cash flow would be insufficient to pay principal and interest on such indebtedness. The issuance of additional warrants and shares to Epic under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement will cause existing holders of our Common Stock to experience substantial dilution. If Elite and Epic consummate the third closing and the quarterly payment closings under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Elite will issue to Epic an aggregate of 1,750 shares of Series E Preferred Stock, convertible into an aggregate of approximately 61.8 million shares of Common Stock, based on a conversion price as of June 30, 2010, and warrants to purchase an additional 40 million shares of Common Stock. If Epic converts the shares of Series E Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock and exercises the warrants for shares of Common Stock, the existing holders of our Common Stock will experience substantial dilution. In addition, with respect to the products developed by Epic under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Elite may issue to Epic (a) warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 56,000,000 shares of its Common Stock upon the receipt by Elite from Epic of written notices of Epic’s receipt of an acknowledgment from the FDA that the FDA accepted for filing an ANDA for certain controlled-release and immediate-release products developed by Epic at the Facility and (b) up to an aggregate of 40,000,000 additional shares of its Common Stock following the receipt by Elite from Epic of written notices of Epic’s receipt from the FDA of approval for certain controlled-release and immediate-release products developed by Epic at the Facility. If these events occur, the existing holders of our Common Stock will also experience substantial dilution upon the issuance of the additional shares of Common Stock and the shares of Common Stock underlying the warrants, if the warrants are exercised. 22 The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or our preferred stock could make a change of control more difficult to achieve. The issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock or the issuance of shares of an additional series of preferred stock could be used to make a change of control of us more difficult and expensive. Under certain circumstances, such shares could be used to create impediments to, or frustrate persons seeking to cause, a takeover or to gain control of us. Such shares could be sold to purchasers who might side with our Board of Directors in opposing a takeover bid that the Board of Directors determines not to be in the best interests of our stockholders. It might also have the effect of discouraging an attempt by another person or entity through the acquisition of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock to acquire control of us with a view to consummating a merger, sale of all or part of our assets, or a similar transaction, since the issuance of new shares could be used to dilute the stock ownership of such person or entity. Epic will have the ability to exert substantial influence over Elite. Under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Elite agreed that it and its Board of Directors will take any and all action necessary so that (i) the size of the Board of Directors will be set and remain at seven directors, (ii) three individuals designated by Epic (the “Epic Directors”) will be appointed to the Board of Directors and (iii) the Epic Directors will be nominated at each annual or special meeting of stockholders at which an election of directors is held or pursuant to any written consent of the stockholders; provided, however, that if at any time following the initial closing of the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and ending on the later of (a) the date immediately following the first anniversary of the Initial Closing Date and (b) the Third Closing Date, Epic owns less than (1) a number of shares of Series E Preferred Stock equal to ninety percent of the aggregate number of shares of Series E Preferred Stock purchased by Epic or (2) following the conversion by Epic of the Series E Preferred Stock, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to ninety percent of the number of shares of Common Stock so converted, neither Elite nor its Board of Directors will be obligated to nominate Epic Directors or take any other action with respect to those actions described in (i), (ii) and/or (iii) above. No Epic Director may be removed from office for cause unless such removal is directed or approved by (A) a majority of the independent members of the Board of Directors and (B) all of the non-affected Epic Director(s). Any vacancies created by the resignation, removal or death of an Epic Director will be filled by the appointment of an additional Epic Director. Any Epic Director may be removed from office upon the request of Epic, with or without cause. Epic, by virtue of having the right to designate the three Epic Directors, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of the other members of Elite’s Board of Directors, the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders for approval and the management and affairs of Elite. In addition, the Series E Certificate provides that on any matter presented to the holders of our Common Stock for their action or consideration at any meeting of our stockholders (or by written consent of stockholders in lieu of meeting), Epic, as a holder of Series E Preferred Stock, will be entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Series E Preferred Stock held by Epic are convertible as of the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote on such matter. Except as provided by law or by the other provisions of the Series E Certificate, Epic will vote together with the holders of Common Stock, as a single class. In addition, pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the Series E Certificate, Elite has agreed that, between the date of the initial closing under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the date which is the earlier of (x) the date the Epic Directors constitute a majority of the Board of Directors and (y) ninety days following the fifth anniversary of the Initial Closing Date, except as Epic otherwise agrees in writing, Elite may conduct its operations only in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice. Further, pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the Series E Certificate, Elite must obtain the prior written consent of Epic in order to take the actions specifically enumerated therein. Accordingly, as a result of such concentration of ownership, Epic will have the ability to exert further influence over Elite and may have the effect of preventing a change of control of Elite. 23 In addition, with respect to the products developed by Epic under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Elite may issue to Epic (a) warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 56,000,000 shares of its Common Stock upon the receipt by Elite from Epic of written notices of Epic’s receipt of an acknowledgment from the FDA that the FDA accepted for filing an ANDA for certain controlled-release and immediate-release products developed by Epic at the Facility and (b) up to an aggregate of 40,000,000 additional shares of its Common Stock following the receipt by Elite from Epic of written notices of Epic’s receipt from the FDA of approval for certain controlled-release and immediate-release products developed by Epic at the Facility. If Elite is required to issue such warrants and such additional shares of its Common Stock to Epic in accordance with the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, Epic may beneficially own in excess of 50% of the issued and outstanding Common Stock or other voting securities of Elite. Under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement, at such time as Epic owns more than 50% of the issued and outstanding Common Stock or other voting securities of Elite, the number of Epic Directors that the Purchaser will be entitled to designate under the Alliance Agreement will be equal to a majority of the Board of Directors. Holders of our preferred stock may exercise their veto rights to make it more difficult for us to take an action or consummate a transaction that may be deemed by the Board to be in our best interest or the best interest of the other stockholders. The holders of Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock have certain veto rights that may be exercised to prevent us from taking an action or consummating a transaction that may be deemed by the Board to be in our best interest and the best interest of the holders of our Common Stock if the holders of our preferred stock believe such action or transaction would be adverse to their own interests. If the holders of our preferred stock exercise their veto rights to prevent us from taking any such action or consummating any such transaction, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives may be hindered. The ability of holders of our preferred stock to affect our actions through use of their veto rights might limit the price that certain investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. In addition, pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the Series E Certificate, Elite has agreed that, between the date of the initial closing under the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the date which is the earlier of (x) the date the Epic Directors constitute a majority of the Board of Directors and (y) ninety days following the fifth anniversary of the Initial Closing Date, except as Epic otherwise agrees in writing, Elite may conduct its operations only in the ordinary and usual course of business consistent with past practice. Further, pursuant to the Epic Strategic Alliance Agreement and the Series E Certificate, Elite must obtain the prior written consent of Epic in order to take certain actions specifically enumerated therein. This right will terminate if Epic’s ownership percentage of the capital stock of Elite, on an as-converted basis, falls below 20% of Elite’s capital stock, on an as-converted basis, as a result of transfers made by Epic. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may deter a third party from acquiring us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger with a 15% shareholder within three years of the date such shareholder acquired 15%, unless the merger meets one of several exceptions. The exceptions include, for example, approval by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares (not counting the 15% shareholder), or approval by the Board of Directors prior to the 15% shareholder acquiring its 15% ownership. This provision makes it difficult for a potential acquirer to force a merger with or takeover of us, and could thus limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 