Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our Company is in early stages of development, which increases the risk of investments in our common stock The Company is currently in the early stages of development, and is planning on bringing its staffing, infrastructure and marketing programs to an operational level, subject to available capital. Funding is needed to pay liabilities, reestablish operations, establish the business concept within current markets and to extend the business into new revenue generating markets through acquisitions. We have incurred substantial losses, have not established business operations, and have received a “going concern” qualification from our auditors, which indicates that there are substantial risks in the Company establishing profitable operations and that the Company will need capital to continue as a going concern. As noted in the opinion of our independent financial auditors, “The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring losses and has negative cash flow from operations. This raises substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.” For the years 2008 and 2007, the Company incurred net losses of $1,093,267 and $2,600,457. In addition, the Company had accumulated deficits of $13,607,367 and $12,508,600 as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, and had negative working capital of, $3,638,863 and $6,421,186 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. During 2009, the Company expects to raise capital and initiate the operation of events and the Stratus Rewards program. However, until such time as operations are established with positive cash flows, the Company will require capital to continue as a going concern. 9 The implementation of the Company’s business plan will require additional financing. Additional funds will be required to complete acquisitions and integrate them into the Company. Based on market conditions at the time, the Company may be unable to obtain sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If it raises additional funds by selling its equity securities, the relative ownership of its existing investors will be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than those of its existing investors. If it raises additional funds through debt financing, it could incur significant borrowing costs as well as face the possibility of default of the Company if it is unable to repay the financing. If it cannot obtain sufficient financing, it may have to delay, reduce or eliminate its marketing and promotion campaign, which could significantly limit its revenues. In addition to needing capital for basic operations, our strategy calls for expansion by acquisition, which will require additional capital. While the Company has identified several promising acquisition targets and expects to be able to secure financing and complete these acquisitions, there can be no assurances that it will be able to do so. While the Company intends that the value added by acquisitions will more than offset the dilution created by the issuance of shares for acquisitions, there can be no assurance that this offset will occur. Additional financing for future acquisitions may be unavailable and, depending on the terms of the proposed acquisitions, financings may be restricted by the terms of credit agreements and privately placed debt securities contained in the financing. Any debt financing would require payments of principal and interest and would adversely impact the Company’s cash flow. Furthermore, future acquisitions may result in charges to operations relating to losses related to the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, thereby increasing the Company’s losses or reducing or eliminating its earnings, if any. Our strategy of expansion by acquisitions has inherent risks. Although management believes that pursuing the Company’s acquisition strategy is in the best interests of the Company, such strategy involves substantial expenditures and risks on the part of the Company. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will be completed successfully or, if completed, will yield the expected benefits to the Company, or will not materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that the value attributed by the market to acquisitions will offset the dilution created by the issuance of additional shares. Furthermore, consummation of the intended acquisitions could result in charges to operations relating to losses from the acquired events, interest expense, or the write down of goodwill, which would increase the Company’s losses or reduce or eliminate its earnings, if any. As a result of the foregoing, there can be no assurance as to when the intended acquisitions will be consummated or that they will be consummated. Furthermore, the results of the intended acquisitions may fail to conform to the assumptions of management. Therefore, in analyzing the information contained in this document, stockholders should consider that the intended acquisitions may not be consummated at all. While acquisition agreements generally provide for indemnification from the seller for a limited period of time with respect to certain matters, some sellers may not be willing to provide indemnification, or may limit the scope of indemnification or that other material matters not identified in the due diligence process will subsequently be identified or that matters heretofore identified will prove to be more significant than currently expected and it is possible that the provider of the indemnification may be unwilling or unable to provide such indemnification. Future acquisitions by the Company could result in (a) potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, (b) the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and/or (c) incurrence of expenses for interest, operating losses and the write down of goodwill and other intangible assets, any or all of which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that such acquisitions were to occur, there can be no assurance that the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected. Our events have not been run on an annual basis since 2004 and need to be reestablished. In 2004, the Company realized $2,554,600 of revenues from events. There were no revenues from events in 2006 and the total revenues from events in 2005, 2007 and 2008 was $252,741, which was derived from smaller-scale, standalone events rather than recurring annual events of a larger scale anticipated in our business plan. The Company has intends to reestablish those events with sufficient critical mass to afford economies of scale in operations. While the Company believes that the nature of the event business allows for events to be readily reestablished and that it has the experience and management expertise to re-establish those events, there can be no assurance that such events will be successfully reestablished. The Company believes that it has full ownership of these events and related intellectual property, but there can be no assurance that unknown or unforeseen claims will not arise after successful reestablishment of such events. 10 Our credit card operations have been dormant since October 2007 and we need to obtain a sponsoring bank to reestablish our Stratus Rewards Visa card program. A contractual relationship with a sponsoring bank is necessary for the Company to conduct its Stratus Rewards operations. In October 2007, the Company ended its relationship with its sponsoring bank that was limited to U.S. operations and is negotiating a new relationship with a larger bank that can support international operations. While the Company believes that these negotiations will be successful and this contractual relationship will be established, there can be no assurance that this relationship will be established. Our company depends on its only executive officer. The Company depends on Paul Feller, Chairman and CEO of the Company, who is an at-will employee, and we do not have key-person life insurance policies on him. In order to achieve its business objectives, the Company must hire additional personnel to fill key managerial positions and provide them with compensation packages sufficient to retain their services. The Company’s future success will depend upon the ability of its executive officers to establish clear lines of responsibility and authority, to work effectively as a team and to gain the trust and confidence of its employees. The loss of the services of a key employee could seriously impair the Company’s ability to operate and improve its events portfolio, which could reduce its revenues. The Company must also identify, attract, train, motivate and retain other highly skilled, technical, managerial, merchandising, engineering, accounting, marketing and customer service personnel. Live entertainment events are largely cash based and are conducted in remote locations. Live entertainment events are conducted in numerous locations and often involve significant cash collections for tickets, concessions, merchandise, etc. The Company has developed and will continue to develop controls and procedures to control cash, to monitor cash proceeds, and to ensure that it is collected and deposited properly, however there can be no assurance that all cash proceeds at an event will be deposited properly into the Company accounts. We have not paid dividends on our stock, nor do we plan to do so for the foreseeable future. At the present time, the Company intends to reinvest any cash generated from operations into expansion of operations and does not intend to pay dividends. The Company will periodically evaluate the best means to bring value to shareholders and such evaluations could result in a continuation of this policy. Investors should look to the growth in value as the primary means of realizing a return on their investment and should not look to dividends for a return. There can be no assurance that the proposed operations of the Company will result in sufficient revenues to enable the Company to operate at profitable levels or to generate a positive cash flow. Any delay in the successful execution of the Company’s operations of or the acquisition and marketing strategies could delay the payment of dividends for an undetermined amount of time. RISKS RELATING TO OUR MARKETS The success of our events requires the availability of suitable athletes, artists and locations. The Company’s ability to sell tickets (including subscriptions) is highly dependent on the availability of popular athletes, artists and events. There can be no assurance that popular athletes, artists and events will be available to the Company in the future, or will be available on terms acceptable to the Company. The lack of availability of these artists and productions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Because the Company will operate its live entertainment events under leasing or booking agreements with venues, its long-term success will depend upon its ability to renew these agreements upon their expiration or termination. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to renew these agreements on acceptable terms or at all, or that it will be able to obtain attractive agreements with substitute venues. Our industry is very competitive and most of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have better access to capital needed to successfully run events. Competition in the live entertainment industry is intense, and competition is fragmented among a wide variety of entities. In addition, television, movies, internet and other non-live events compete for the time and attention for potential attendees for live events. The Company intends to compete on a local, regional and national basis with large venue owners and entertainment promoters for the hosting, booking, promoting and producing of live entertainment events. Moreover, the Company’s marketing and consulting operations will compete with advertising agencies and other marketing organizations. The Company will compete not only with other live entertainment events, including sporting events and theatrical presentations, but also with non-live forms of entertainment, such as television, radio and motion pictures. The Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company. Certain of the Company’s competitors may also operate on a less leveraged basis, and have greater operating and financial flexibility than the Company. In addition, many of these competitors have long standing relationships with performers, producers, and promoters and may offer other services that are not provided by the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in this market or against these competitors. 11 Our events business is dependent on obtaining local permits to conduct the events and our Stratus Rewards business operates in a very regulated environment. The ability to conduct live entertainment events is subject to extensive local, state and federal governmental licensing, approval and permit requirements, including, among other things, approvals of state and local land-use and environmental authorities, building permits, zoning permits and liquor licenses. Significant acquisitions may also be subject to the requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act or other antitrust laws or regulations. Other types of licenses, approvals and permits from governmental or quasi-governmental agencies may also be required for other opportunities that the Company may pursue in the future, although the Company has no agreements or understandings with respect to these opportunities at this time. In addition, the Stratus credit card operates in a highly regulated and controlled market. The Company has used, and intends to use a large, established commercial bank to run its credit card processing and payments, but there can be no assurance that the Company may not be subject to current or future rules or regulations that could adversely affect its ability to operate the Stratus card in the manner intended or to achieve the results expected. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the licenses, approvals and permits it may require from time to time in order to operate its business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our ability to operate events and the credit card operations. The Company has purchased a number of events and the Stratus Rewards business and intends to acquire other events as well. When an event is purchased, the Company acquires certain naming, venue and other intellectual property rights that are needed to conduct these events and card operations and prevent other parties from infringing on these events. While the Company does an extensive check to verify these rights, there can be no assurance that such intellectual property rights will be sufficient to allow the Company to conduct such events. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. If intellectual property rights relating to past or future acquisitions are challenged by third parties, we could incur significant costs to defend such rights and/or we could be required to pay license fees to such third parties if they were to prevail in a legal challenge to such intellectual property rights. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market for our common stock only recently developed and the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially in the future. From the Reverse Merger on March 14, 2008 until September 19, 2008, our stock was listed on The Pink Sheets LLC, a privately-owned company whose Electronic Quotation Service provides an Internet-based, real-time quotation service (“Pink Sheets”). On September 19, 2008, our stock was approved for listing on the OTC Bulletin Board® (“Bulletin Board”), a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices, and volume information in over-the-counter equity securities that provides for improved liquidity and a larger potential shareholder base that those provided by the Pink Sheets. On November 3, 2008, we had obtained the CUSIP numbers and market makers needed for our stock to actively begin trading on the Bulletin Board. From March 14, 2008 to October 31, 2008, our common stock traded on 41 of the 182 trading days during this period and traded a total of 49,590 shares, or an average of 1,210 shares per day in which it was traded. From November 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008, our stock traded on 40 out of 41 trading days during this period and a total of 2,831,850 shares were traded, for an average of 70,796 shares per day. As a result of this increased trading activity from November 1, 2008 on, the stock price experienced higher fluctuations and such fluctuations may be expected in the future. While we are looking to add more market making firms which will actively trade our stock and provide for more efficient pricing, there are currently between three to five market makers providing quotes on any given trading day. This limited number of market makers could result in wide fluctuations in the price of our common stock. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline significantly. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. At the time of the Reverse Merger on March 14, 2008, 49,500,000 shares our Stratus common stock were issued to existing PSEI stockholders, in addition to the 5,500,000 shares held by existing Feris International shareholders. Of the shares issued to PSEI stockholders, 24,077,086 were issued to our Chairman and CEO in exchange for his PSEI shares, leaving 25,422,914 shares issued to other existing PSEI stockholders and a total of 30,922,914 shares held by non-affiliates. These shares issued or held at the time of the Reverse Merger have or will be eligible for resale under an exemption from registration under the revised Rule 144 requirements. In addition, we issued 776,114 shares of common stock during 2008 that have, or will become, eligible for resale under an exemption from registration under the revised Rule 144 requirements. 12 If significant amounts of such shares of stock were sold, such sales could result in significant declines in our stock price. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the Over The Counter Bulletin Board Market and our common stock is delisted from this market, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our common stock is listed on the Bulletin Board. Among other requirements to maintain such listing, we need to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q and our Annual Report on Form 10K with the SEC in a timely manner. We did not file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q on time for the periods ended March 31, 2008 and June 30, 2008, but did file our Quarterly Report on Form 10Q on time for the period ending September 30, 2008. If we are late in filing our Annual Report on Form 10K for the period ending December 31, 2008 or if we are late with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q for the periods ending in 2009 and through the quarter ending June 30, 2010, we will be delisted from the Bulletin Board and will return to the Pink Sheets. In the event that deslisting occurs because these SEC reports are filed late, we will need to file all periodic SEC reports in a timely manner for one year and meet other applicable listing criteria before becoming eligible again for Bulletin Board listing. In the event our common stock returns to the Pink Sheets, the market for our common stock will be adversely affected and the market price for our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2008, our Chairman and CEO, along with his father, collectively controlled approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2008, our Chairman and CEO, along with his father, together controlled approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. You and other stockholders will have minimal influence over these actions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. THE FOREGOING IS A SUMMARY OF SOME OF THE MORE SIGNIFICANT RISKS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. THE FOREGOING SHOULD NOT BE INTERPRETED AS A REPRESENTATION THAT THE MATTERS REFERRED TO HEREIN ARE THE ONLY RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NEITHER THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS INVOLVED IN THIS INVESTMENT, NOR THE REFERENCE TO THE RISKS HEREIN SHOULD BE DEEMED A REPRESENTATION THAT SUCH RISKS ARE OF EQUAL MAGNITUDE. PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS ARE URGED TO CONSULT THEIR OWN ADVISORS AS TO THE INVESTMENT AND ANY TAX CONSEQUENCES OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANY. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. Item 