Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it may currently deem immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In the past, events beyond our control, including an economic slowdown or downturn and terrorism, harmed the operating performance of the hotel industry generally and the performance of our hotels. If these or similar events occur or continue to occur, our operating and financial results may be harmed by declines in occupancy, average daily room rates and/or other operating revenues. The performance of the lodging industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the U.S. gross domestic product (“GDP”). All of our hotels are classified as luxury, upper upscale or upscale. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This 6 Table of Contents characteristic may result from the fact that upper upscale hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel, and on the occupancy and ADR of our hotels. Future terrorist activities could have a harmful effect on both the industry and us. Likewise, the volatility in the credit and equity markets and the economic recession will continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Even after an economic recovery begins, a significant period of time may elapse before RevPAR, operating margins and other key lodging fundamentals improve. The return on our hotels depends upon the ability of the hotel operators to operate and manage the hotels. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels. As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, repositioning of a hotel, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. Although LHL consults with the hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to such matters. Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, revenue per available room, average daily rates or operating profits, we may not have sufficient rights under our hotel operating agreements to enable us to force the hotel operator to change its method of operation. We generally can only seek redress if a hotel operator violates the terms of the applicable operating agreement, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the agreement. Some of the operating agreements have lengthy terms and may not be terminable by us before the agreement’s expiration. In the event that we are able to and do replace any of our hotel operators, we may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We currently own only luxury, upper upscale and upscale hotels. These segments of the lodging market are highly competitive and generally subject to greater volatility than most other market segments, which could negatively affect our profitability. The luxury, upper upscale and upscale segments of the hotel business are highly competitive. Our hotels compete on the basis of location, room rates, quality, service levels, reputation and reservations systems, among many factors. There are many competitors in the luxury, upper upscale and upscale segments, and many of these competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and room revenue at our hotels, which would harm our operations. Over-building in the hotel industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates. In addition, in periods of weak demand, as may occur during a general economic recession, profitability is negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating luxury, upper upscale and upscale hotels. Our performance and our ability to make distributions on our shares are subject to risks associated with the hotel industry. Competition for guests, increases in operating costs, dependence on travel and economic conditions could adversely affect our cash flow. Our hotels are subject to all operating risks common to the hotel industry. These risks include: • adverse effects of weak national, regional and local economic conditions; • tightening credit standards; • competition for guests and meetings from other hotels including competition and pricing pressure from internet wholesalers and distributors; 7 Table of Contents • increases in operating costs, including wages, benefits, insurance, property taxes and energy, due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset in the future by increased room rates; • labor strikes, disruptions or lockouts that may impact operating performance; • dependence on demand from business and leisure travelers, which may fluctuate and be seasonal; • increases in energy costs, airline fares and other expenses related to travel, which may negatively affect traveling; and • terrorism, terrorism alerts and warnings, military actions, pandemics or other medical events which may cause decreases in business and leisure travel. These factors could adversely affect the ability of the lessees to generate revenues and to make rental payments to us. Unexpected capital expenditures could adversely affect our cash flow. Hotels require ongoing renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement or refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Under the terms of our leases, we are obligated to pay the cost of certain capital expenditures at the hotels, including new brand standards, and to pay for periodic replacement or refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment. If capital expenditures exceed expectations, there can be no assurance that sufficient sources of financing will be available to fund such expenditures. In addition, we have acquired hotels that have undergone significant renovation and may acquire additional hotels in the future that require significant renovation. Renovations of hotels involve numerous risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, the effect on current demand, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other hotels. Our lenders may have suffered losses related to the weakening economy and may not be able to fund our borrowings. Our lenders, including the lenders participating in our $750.0 million senior unsecured credit facility, may have suffered losses related to their lending and other financial relationships, especially because of the general weakening of the national economy and increased financial instability of many borrowers. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to borrow under our credit facility or to obtain other financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we were unable to draw funds under our credit facility because of a lender default or to obtain other cost-effective financing. Our obligation to comply with financial covenants in our unsecured credit facilities and mortgages on some of our hotel properties could impact our operations, may require us to liquidate our properties and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our unsecured credit facilities. We have a senior unsecured credit facility with a syndicate of banks that provides for a maximum borrowing of up to $750.0 million, with the maximum borrowing potentially increased to $1.0 billion through an accordion feature. The senior unsecured credit facility matures on January 30, 2016, subject to a one-year extension that we may exercise at our option, pursuant to certain terms and conditions, including the payment of an extension fee. The senior unsecured credit facility contains certain financial covenants relating to net worth requirements, debt ratios and fixed charge coverage and other limitations that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders upon events of default. The senior unsecured credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that allows the lenders under the credit facility to stop future extensions of credit and/or accelerate the maturity of any outstanding principal balances under the credit facility if we are in default under another debt obligation, including our non-recourse secured mortgage indebtedness. 8 Table of Contents LHL has an unsecured revolving credit facility with U.S. Bank National Association that provides for a maximum borrowing of up to $25.0 million. The unsecured revolving credit facility matures on January 30, 2016, subject to a one-year extension that LHL may exercise at its option, pursuant to certain terms and conditions, including the payment of an extension fee. The unsecured revolving credit facility contains certain financial covenants relating to net worth requirements, debt ratios and fixed charge coverage. If we violate the financial covenants in our credit facilities, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness with respect to such credit facility before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, or at all. Moreover, if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, including at maturity of our credit facilities, we may be forced to dispose of hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses that reduce cash flow from operating activities. Failure to comply with our financial covenants contained in our credit facilities, or our non-recourse secured mortgages described below, could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of additional debt or changes in general economic conditions. Our non-recourse secured mortgages. In addition to our senior unsecured credit facility and the LHL unsecured revolving credit facility, we have from time to time entered into non-recourse mortgages secured by specific hotel properties. Under the terms of these debt obligations, a lender’s only remedy in the event of default is against the real property securing the mortgage, except where a borrower has, among other customary exceptions, engaged in an action constituting fraud or an intentional misrepresentation. In those cases, a lender may seek a remedy for a breach directly against the borrower, including its other assets. The Indianapolis Marriott Downtown, Hilton San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, Westin Copley Place, Hotel Deca, Westin Michigan Avenue, Hotel Solamar and Hotel Roger Williams are each mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness aggregating $643.7 million (excluding loan premiums) as of December 31, 2011. The Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel is mortgaged to secure payment of principal and interest on bonds with an aggregate par value of $42.5 million. These mortgages contain debt service coverage tests related to the mortgaged property. If our debt service coverage ratio fails, for that specific property, to exceed a threshold level specified in a mortgage, cash flows from that hotel will automatically be directed to the lender to (i) satisfy required payments, (ii) fund certain reserves required by the mortgage and (iii) fund additional cash reserves for future required payments, including final payment. Cash flows will be directed to the lender until such time as we again become compliant with the specified debt service coverage ratio or the mortgage is paid off. If we are unable to meet mortgage payment obligations, including the payment obligation upon maturity of the mortgage borrowing, the mortgage securing the specific property could be foreclosed upon by, or the property could be otherwise transferred to, the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. We may also elect to sell the property, if we are able to sell the property, for a loss in advance of a foreclosure or other transfer. An event of default under our non-recourse secured mortgage may also constitute an event of default under our senior unsecured credit facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Company is in compliance with all debt covenants, current on all loan payments and not otherwise in default under the credit facilities or mortgages. 9 Table of Contents Our liquidity may be reduced and our cost of debt financing may be increased because we may be unable to, or elect not to, remarket debt securities related to our Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel for which we may be liable. We are the obligor with respect to a $37.1 million tax-exempt special project revenue bond and a $5.4 million taxable special project revenue bond, both issued by the Massachusetts Port Authority (collectively, the “Massport Bonds”). The Massport Bonds, which mature on March 1, 2018, bear interest based on weekly floating rates and have no principal reductions prior to their scheduled maturities. The Massport Bonds may be redeemed at any time, at our option, without penalty. The Royal Bank of Scotland provides the supporting letters of credit on the Massport Bonds. The letters of credit expire on February 14, 2014, pursuant to amendments to the agreements in 2011. The Royal Bank of Scotland letters of credit also have three one-year extensions that we may exercise at our option, subject to certain terms and conditions. If the Royal Bank of Scotland fails to renew its letters of credit at expiration and an acceptable replacement provider cannot be found, we may be required to pay off the bonds. If we are unable to, or elect not to, issue or remarket the Massport Bonds, we would expect to rely primarily on our available cash and revolving credit facility to pay off the Massport Bonds. At certain times, we may hold some of the Massport Bonds that have not been successfully remarketed. Our borrowing costs under our revolving credit facility may be higher than tax-exempt bond financing costs. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility to pay off the Massport Bonds would also reduce our liquidity to meet other obligations. Our performance is subject to real estate industry conditions, the terms of our leases and management agreements. Because real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell hotels when desired. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Code limit a REIT’s ability to sell properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so. Liability for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition. As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment that may require a current or previous owner of real estate to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances at a property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, and liability is not limited under the enactments and could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by the person may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substance released into the environment at the disposal or treatment facility. Even if more than one person were responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for the entire amount of clean-up costs incurred. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. In connection with ownership (direct or indirect) of our hotels, we may be considered an owner or operator of properties with asbestos-containing materials. Having arranged for the disposal or treatment of contaminants, we may be potentially liable for removal, remediation and other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property. The costs of compliance with the ADA and other government regulations could adversely affect our cash flow. Under the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with ADA or other government regulation such as building codes or fire safety regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make shareholder distributions could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Certain leases and management agreements may constrain us from acting in the best interest of shareholders or require us to make certain payments. The Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel, San Diego Paradise Point Resort and Spa, The Hilton San Diego Resort and Spa, Hotel Roger Williams and Viceroy Santa Monica are each subject to a ground or land and building lease with a third-party lessor which requires us to obtain the consent of the relevant third party lessor in order to sell any of these hotels or to assign our leasehold interest in any of the ground or land and building leases. Accordingly, if we determine that the sale of any of these hotels or the assignment of our leasehold interest in any of these ground or land and building leases is in the best interest of our shareholders, we may be prevented from completing such a transaction if we are unable to obtain the required consent from the relevant lessor. The Indianapolis Marriott Downtown, Westin Copley Place and Hotel Solamar are each subject to a ground or air rights lease and do not require approval from the relevant third-party lessor. In some instances, we may be required to obtain the consent of the hotel operator or franchisor prior to selling the hotel. Typically, such consent is only required in connection with certain proposed sales, such as if the proposed purchaser is engaged in the operation of a competing hotel or does not meet certain minimum financial requirements. The operators of Harborside Hyatt Conference Center & Hotel and Alexis Hotel require approval of certain sales. Some of our hotels are subject to rights of first offer which may adversely affect our ability to sell those properties on favorable terms or at all. We are subject to a franchisor’s or operator’s right of first offer with respect to the Hilton Alexandria Old Town, Hilton San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, The Hilton San Diego Resort and Spa, Embassy Suites Philadelphia—Center City and Park Central Hotel. These third-party rights may adversely affect our ability to timely dispose of these properties on favorable terms, or at all. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense. As of December 31, 2011, $307.5 million of aggregate indebtedness (32.3% of total indebtedness) was subject to variable interest rates. An increase in interest rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow and may affect our ability to make distributions to shareholders and to service our indebtedness. Failure to qualify as a REIT would be costly. We have operated (and intend to so operate in the future) so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1998. Although management believes that we are organized and operated in a manner to so qualify, no assurance can be given that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. This treatment would cause us to incur additional tax liabilities, significantly impair our ability to service indebtedness and reduce the amount of cash available to make new investments or to make distributions on our common shares of beneficial interest and preferred shares. Current laws include provisions that could provide relief in the event we violate certain provisions of the Code that otherwise would result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. We cannot assure that these relief provisions would apply if we failed to comply with the REIT qualification laws. Even if the relief provisions do apply, we would be subject to a penalty tax of at least $50,000 for each disqualifying event in most cases. 11 Table of Contents Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures could limit our control of those investments. Partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including among others, the possibility that our co-investors might become bankrupt, might at any time have goals or interests that are different from ours because of disparate tax consequences or otherwise, and may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture investments include an impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither our co-investors nor we would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. There is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures. We may not have enough insurance. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, extended coverage and business interruption policies that insure us against losses with policy specifications and insurance limits that we believe are reasonable. There are certain types of losses, such as losses from environmental problems or terrorism, that management may not be able to insure against or may decide not to insure against since the cost of insuring is not economical. We may suffer losses that exceed our insurance coverage. Further, market conditions, changes in building codes and ordinances or other factors such as environmental laws may make it too expensive to repair or replace a property that has been damaged or destroyed, even if covered by insurance. Our organizational documents and agreements with our executives and applicable Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent change of control transactions and may prevent shareholders from realizing a premium for their shares. Our trustees serve staggered three-year terms, the trustees may only be removed for cause and remaining trustees may fill board vacancies. Our Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of trustees, each serving staggered three-year terms. In addition, a trustee may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust and bylaws also provide that a majority of the remaining trustees may fill any vacancy on the Board of Trustees and further effectively provide that only the Board of Trustees may increase or decrease the number of persons serving on the Board of Trustees. These provisions preclude shareholders from removing incumbent trustees, except for cause after a majority affirmative vote, and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees. Our Board of Trustees may approve the issuance of shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring the Company. The Board of Trustees has the power under the declaration of trust to classify any of our unissued preferred shares, and to reclassify any of our previously classified but unissued preferred shares of any series from time to time, in one or more series of preferred shares, without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the voting power, dividend and other rights of holders of common shares and the value of the common shares. Our declaration of trust prohibits ownership of more than 9.8% of the common shares or 9.8% of any series of preferred shares. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or under applicable attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year. Our declaration of trust generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of (i) more than 9.8% of the number or value (whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 9.8% of the number or value (whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred shares. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Any transfer of shares that would violate the ownership limitation will result in the shares that would otherwise be held in violation of the ownership limit being designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a charitable trust effective on the day before the purported transfer or other event giving rise to such excess ownership. The intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. 12 Table of Contents The Maryland Business Combination Statute applies to us. A Maryland “business combination” statute contains provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special shareholder voting requirements on these combinations. The Board of Trustees may choose to subject us to the Maryland Control Share Act. A Maryland law known as the “Maryland Control Share Act” provides that “control shares” of a company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the acquiring shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the company’s shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Our bylaws currently provide that we are not subject to these provisions. However, the Board of Trustees, without shareholder approval, may repeal this bylaw and cause us to become subject to the Maryland Control Share Act. Other provisions of our organization documents may delay or prevent a change of control of the Company. Among other provisions, our organizational documents provide that the number of trustees constituting the full Board of Trustees may be fixed only by the trustees and that a special meeting of shareholders may not be called by holders of common shares holding less than a majority of the outstanding common shares entitled to vote at such meeting. Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event of a change in control of the Company. We entered into agreements with our executive officers that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances within one year following a “change in control” of the Company (as defined in the agreements) or if the executive officer resigns for “good reason” (as defined in the agreements). These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of the Company and thereby prevent or deter a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in our shareholders’ best interests. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our key executive officers and would be adversely affected by the loss of their services. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as our other executive officers, to execute our business strategy. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, would have an adverse effect on our business. A large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may be dilutive to current shareholders. The sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. As of December 31, 2011, there were 200,000,000 common shares authorized under our declaration of trust, as amended, of which 83,786,932 were outstanding. Our Board of Trustees may authorize the issuance of additional authorized but unissued common shares or other authorized but unissued securities at any time, including pursuant to our 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. We also have filed a registration statement with the SEC allowing us to offer, from time to time, an indefinite amount of equity securities (including common or preferred shares) on an as-needed basis and subject to our ability to affect offerings on satisfactory terms based on prevailing conditions. In addition, in February 2011, our Board of Trustees authorized us to issue common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $250.0 million in a continuous equity issuance program. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of 13 Table of Contents secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity. No prediction can be made about the effect that future distributions or sales of our common shares will have on the market price of our common shares. Holders of our outstanding preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares. Our Board of Trustees has the authority to designate and issue preferred shares with liquidation, dividend and other rights that are senior to those of our common shares. As of December 31, 2011, 3,170,000 shares of our 7 1/2% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the “Series D Preferred Shares”), 3,500,000 shares of our 8% Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the “Series E Preferred Shares”), 6,348,888 shares of our 7 1/4% Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the “Series G Preferred Shares”) and 2,750,000 shares of our 7 1/2% Series H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the “Series H Preferred Shares”) were issued and outstanding. The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding preferred shares is approximately $394.2 million, and annual dividends on our outstanding preferred shares are approximately $29.6 million. Holders of our Series D Preferred Shares, our Series E Preferred Shares, our Series G Preferred Shares and our Series H Preferred Shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common shares. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common shares, holders of these preferred shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid distributions. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common shares. In addition, holders of these preferred shares have the right to elect two additional trustees to our Board of Trustees whenever dividends on the preferred shares are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. Because our decision to issue securities will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future preferred offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future securities issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their interest. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Table of Contents 