Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to our Finances and Capital Requirements We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe we have adequate financial resources to fund our current operations into July 2009. However, in order to fund on-going cash requirements beyond that time, or to continue development or expand our programs, we will need to raise additional funds through achievement of milestones from existing collaboration agreements, the entry into new strategic collaborations with respect to one or more of our core assets or the license or monetization of our non-core assets, potential equity financings and/or other funding sources. In the event we are unable to generate sufficient capital through the attainment of contractual milestones, other business development activities, potential equity financings and/or other funding sources, we will be required to seek additional resources by pursuing other strategic alternatives including the merger with or sale of some or all of our assets to another company, or cease operations entirely, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investments. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interests. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years, if at all, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. Our additional funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including: • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities, • the scope, prioritization and number of clinical development and research programs we pursue, • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish, 27 Table of Contents • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, • the costs and timing of regulatory approvals, and • the effect of competing technological and market developments. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, if ever, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, public or private equity offerings and debt financings, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs and we may be unable to continue our operations. The recent changes in regulatory requirements for developing drugs for the treatment of metabolic disease have increased the cost of development of metabolic disease products and negatively impacted the economic potential of collaborative partnerships in the metabolic disease area, which may limit our ability to fund our near-term operational cash flow requirements through the licensing or sale of our non-core assets and the establishment of strategic collaborations with respect to one or more of our core assets. We are seeking to fund our on-going cash requirements beyond July 2009 by establishing strategic collaborations with respect to one or more of our core assets and licensing or selling our non-core assets, among other means. Payments under our collaborations are generally made in the form of up-front license fees, milestone payments and downstream royalties. The amount of these payments are generally determined as a factor of the future estimated economic realizable return on the eventual commercialization of these products. Our core assets consist of product candidates and advanced discovery programs being developed for the treatment of metabolic diseases. The clinical development, manufacturing and commercialization of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. In the U.S., neither we, nor our collaborators, are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. The process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Approval policies or regulations may change and may be influenced by the results of other similar or competitive products. For example, in February 2008 the FDA released draft guidance regarding clinical trials for product candidates treating diabetes that may result in more stringent requirements for the clinical testing and regulatory approval of such product candidates. These and any future guidance that may result from recent FDA advisory panel discussions may make it more expensive to develop and commercialize such product candidates. Certain large pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology companies may elect to terminate development activities for diabetes products as a result of this draft guidance and possible increases in development costs and therefore become unavailable as potential licensing partners. Similarly, product candidates for treating hyperlipidemia may be subject to guidance in the future that limits the number of potential licensing partners. The anticipated increases in the cost of development, complexity and time associated with expected additional regulatory requirements inherently increases the risk of delaying and/or not obtaining the FDA approvals necessary to develop, manufacture or commercialize products in metabolic diseases. Moreover, if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidates or impose on-going requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. The increased costs associated with more stringent regulatory requirements may negatively impact the amount of up-front license fees, milestone payments or downstream royalties we may receive under any collaboration arrangements. If we are unsuccessful in establishing strategic collaborations for one or more of our core assets or generating sufficient up-front license fees from the collaborations we do establish, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs and we may be unable to continue our operations. 28 Table of Contents Turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily with net proceeds from equity financings, our venture debt facility and strategic alliances and collaborative partnerships. Under our strategic plan we intend to fund our near-term and on-going cash requirements through equity financings or other means, including the achievement of milestones from existing collaboration agreements, the entry into new strategic collaborations with respect to one or more of our core assets or the license or monetization of our non-core assets. In the event we are not able to generate sufficient capital through equity financings or business development activities or we are not successful in attaining contractual milestones, we will be required to seek additional resources by pursuing other strategic alternatives. The credit markets and the financial services industry are currently experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain the capital necessary to carry out our strategic plan, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for the foreseeable future, and we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred net losses from our inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $192.3 million. While we are unable at this time to determine whether our net losses will increase or decrease in the future, we expect to continue to incur net losses during the next several years as we conduct operations. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, if ever. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its audit opinion issued in connection with our balance sheets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and our statements of operations, stockholder’s equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern given our recurring net losses, negative cash flows from operations and our working capital not being sufficient to fund our operations through December 31, 2009. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of recorded assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may negatively impact our ability to enter into new strategic alliances and collaborations. Traditional out-licensing arrangements may include participation from the licensor on the research and development of the program and in some cases co-promotion rights. If we are not able to demonstrate an ability to continue operations to participate in the development or commercialization of our proprietary products and discovery programs, we may be unsuccessful in entering into strategic alliances or collaborations under favorable terms, if at all. Although we do not maintain financial covenants on our existing debt facilities, our independent registered public accounting firm’s opinion may be perceived by our existing creditors and investors as a risk of insolvency and potentially impair our ability to enter into new debt facilities or equity financings. 29 Table of Contents We currently lack a significant continuing revenue source and may not become or remain profitable. Our ability to become and remain profitable depends upon our ability to generate continuing revenues. To date, our product candidates and strategic collaborations have not generated any significant revenues, other than one-time or time-limited payments associated with our collaborations such as milestone payments and up-front fees. Our ability to generate significant continuing revenues depends on a number of factors, including: • successful completion of on-going development activities for our product candidates, • achievement of regulatory approval for our product candidates, and • successful completion of our current and future strategic collaborations. We do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years. If we are unable to eventually generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become or remain profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We may not have sufficient authorized and available shares of common stock to raise additional funds by issuing securities. We had 54,012,415 authorized shares of common stock available for future issuance as of March 25, 2009. If we are unable to obtain shareholder approval to increase our authorized shares, then our ability to raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings may be limited due to our having insufficient authorized and available shares of common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds through the issuance of securities and no alternative source of funds is available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs and we may be unable to continue our operations. Certain provisions of our financing facilities may require us to pay any outstanding balance of indebtedness and could limit our ability to fund on-going operations or obtain additional financing. Our outstanding debt and equipment loan agreements with Oxford contain events of default that may be triggered by a material adverse change, which is defined in the agreements as “any material change in the general affairs, senior management, results of operations, or financial condition of the Company, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, that is likely to impair the ability of the Company to repay any portion of the obligations or a material impairment in the value or priority of the lender’s security interest in the collateral.” We currently do not have sufficient working capital to fund our operations through December 31, 2009 without additional sources of cash. While the determination of the occurrence of a material adverse event is subjective, Oxford has confirmed that we are not in default under the outstanding debt and equipment loan agreements as of December 31, 2008. In the event we are not successful in securing additional sources of cash in the near-term, Oxford may claim that a material adverse change has occurred under the debt or equipment loan agreements, and Oxford could demand immediate repayment of the balances outstanding under the agreements. If we are required to pay any outstanding balance of indebtedness immediately, we may be faced with the following negative consequences: • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, • payments of our indebtedness will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future strategic initiatives, and • there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing. 30 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results and stock price may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • the establishment of strategic collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may receive under these arrangements, • the development status of our product candidates, including results of our clinical trials and other studies, • our recommendation of additional drug compounds for clinical development, • our addition or termination of research programs or funding support, • variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or research programs, • impact of restructuring costs, and • changes in the use assumptions in the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, in future periods. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, debt financings, grants or our Committed Equity Financing Facility, or CEFF, if available. We currently do not have access to additional capital through the CEFF. For example, we have an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission which allows us to issue shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock in the future for an aggregate initial offering price of up to $75 million, subject to substantial limitations relating to the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates. We have also filed a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the resale of shares issuable under the CEFF though to date, no shares have been issued under this resale registration statement. We may sell additional securities from time to time in one or more offerings in amounts, at prices and on terms that we will determine at the time of the offering. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, pursuant to our effective shelf registration statements or otherwise, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary HepDirect technology, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Given the on-going financial crisis in the U.S. and other current negative macroeconomic indicators, such as the recession in the U.S. or other economic downturns in the global markets, our ability to issue securities or obtain debt financing in the future may not be available or attainable on favorable terms, if at all. 31 Table of Contents Our CEFF may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to an institutional investor and may result in dilution to our stockholders. We have entered into a CEFF with an institutional investor that entitles us to sell and obligates the investor to purchase, from time to time over a period of up to 36 months which commenced in December 2006, shares of our common stock at a discount of up to 10% for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $50.0 million, or 6,046,701 shares, of common stock, subject to specified conditions and restrictions. Our current market capitalization does not meet the CEFF minimum threshold of $53 million, and therefore, we do not currently have access to this capital. The investor will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless specified conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; a minimum amount of our market capitalization; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to the investor; compliance with laws; and the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF. In addition, among other termination rights, the investor is permitted to terminate the CEFF by providing written notice to us within 10 business days after it obtains actual knowledge that an event has occurred resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, properties or financial condition (subject to specified exceptions, including conditions or events that are reasonably expected to occur in the ordinary course of our business). If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the investor terminates the CEFF, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a “blackout” notice to the investor to suspend the use of the prospectus covering the shares of common stock issued in connection with the CEFF and prohibit the investor from selling shares under that prospectus for a certain period of time. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following the settlement of a draw down, or if the registration statement covering the resale of the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF is not effective in circumstances not permitted by our registration rights agreement with the investor, then we must make a payment to the investor, or issue the investor additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of a specified number of shares held by the investor immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the resale registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. Should we sell shares to the investor under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in our Common Stock As of December 31, 2008 we fail to meet one of the Nasdaq Global Market’s continued listing requirements and our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders’ equity totaled $3.4 million which does not meet the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market and while we are currently seeking to transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may not be successful in doing so. In order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global or Capital Market, we will need to continue meeting certain minimum listing standards that include, or may include, our stockholders’ equity, the market value of our listed or publicly-held securities, the number of publicly-held shares, our net income, a minimum bid price for our common stock, the number of stockholders, the number of market makers and compliance with certain of our corporate governance policies. If we fail to maintain the standards required now or in the future, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Global or Capital Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common 32 Table of Contents stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from the Nasdaq Global or Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that is not necessarily consistent with the interests of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock, beneficially owned approximately 74% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that is not necessarily consistent with the interests of other stockholders. Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the regulatory status of our product candidates, including the status and results of our development activities, • establishment of new collaborative arrangements, • events affecting Merck, Roche or any future collaborators, • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or other events by us or our competitors, • regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries, • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies, • variations in our quarterly operating results, • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance, • changes in accounting principles, • issuances of new equity securities by us, pursuant to our effective shelf registration statements or otherwise, • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders, • additions or departures of key personnel, • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities, and • changes in industry and general market conditions, including the recent economic crisis. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a 33 Table of Contents prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We incur costs associated with regulatory compliance, and these costs could be significant. There are numerous regulatory requirements for public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market. Section 404 requires management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Compliance with these rules could also result in continued diversion of management’s time and attention, which could be disruptive to normal business operations. If we do not satisfactorily or timely comply with these requirements, possible consequences could include sanction or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Nasdaq Stock Market; fines and penalties; incomplete or late filing of our periodic reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K; or civil or criminal liability. Our stock price and business could also be adversely affected. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. A large portion of our shares are held by a small number of persons and investment funds. In addition, these persons and funds hold warrants to purchase 2,363,556 shares of common stock that, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. Moreover, several of our stockholders and warrant holders have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the unregistered shares they currently hold or may acquire upon exercise of warrants, or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Under the CEFF, an institutional investor is committed to purchase up to $50 million or 6,046,471 shares of our common stock over a 36 month period which commenced in December 2006, subject to certain conditions. Our current market capitalization does not meet the CEFF minimum threshold of $53 million, and therefore, we do not currently have access to this capital. Sales by these current and potential future stockholders or warrant holders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to our Business We are dependent on the success of one or more of our current product candidates and we cannot be certain that any of them will receive regulatory approval or be commercialized. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our core metabolic disease assets, MB07811 and MB07803, and our non-core liver disease assets, pradefovir and MB07133. Early clinical trials conducted to date have provided initial evidence of safety and therapeutic effect with all of our product candidates. However, to date, no pivotal, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials designed to provide clinical and statistically significant proof of efficacy, or to provide sufficient evidence of safety to justify approval, have 34 Table of Contents been completed with any of our product candidates. All of our product candidates will require additional development, including clinical trials as well as further animal studies to evaluate their toxicology, carcinogenicity and pharmacokinetics and optimize their formulation, and regulatory clearances before they can be commercialized. Positive results obtained during early development do not necessarily mean later development will succeed or that regulatory clearances will be obtained. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial drugs, either because our product candidates fail to be safe and effective or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to pursue our product candidates through the clinical development and approval processes. If any of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy at any time or during any phase of development, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of the product candidate. We do not anticipate that any of our current product candidates will be eligible to receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization for a number of years, if at all. Even if we were ultimately to receive regulatory approval for these product candidates, we and/or our potential future partners, as applicable, may be unable to commercialize them successfully for a variety of reasons. These include, for example, the availability of alternative treatments, lack of cost effectiveness, the cost of manufacturing the product on a commercial scale and the effect of competition with other drugs. The success of our product candidates may also be limited by the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects. If we fail to commercialize one or more of our current product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain or maintain profitability, and our reputation in our industry and the investment community may be damaged. If development of our product candidates does not produce favorable results, we and our collaborators, as applicable, may be unable to commercialize these products. To receive regulatory approval for the commercialization of our core metabolic disease assets, MB07811 and MB07803, our non-core liver disease assets, pradefovir and MB07133, or any other product candidates that we may develop, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials must be conducted to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans to the satisfaction of the FDA in the U.S. and other regulatory agencies elsewhere in the world. In order to support marketing approval, these agencies typically require successful results in one or more Phase 3 clinical trials, which our current product candidates have not yet reached and may never reach. In addition, regulatory approval of our product candidates may be affected by adverse results in animal studies conducted during clinical development to, among other things, evaluate their toxicology, carcinogenicity and pharmacokinetics and optimize their formulation. The development process is expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. Failure can occur at any stage of the process. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the development process that could delay or prevent commercialization of our current or future product candidates, including the following: • clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, • animal studies conducted on product candidates during clinical development to, among other things, evaluate their toxicology and pharmacokinetics and optimize their formulation may produce unfavorable results, • patient recruitment and enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, • costs of development may be greater than we anticipate, • our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects that delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use or market acceptance if approved, • collaborators who are responsible for development of our product candidates may not devote sufficient resources to these clinical trials or other studies of these candidates or conduct them in a timely manner, or 35 Table of Contents • we may face delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial. Success in early development does not mean that later development will be successful because, for example, product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, in July 2007, we were informed by Daiichi Sankyo, our former collaborative partner on CS-917, that results from a completed Phase 2 clinical trial showed that this product candidate failed to achieve the primary endpoint of the clinical trial despite having successfully achieved the primary endpoints of other earlier clinical trials. In January 2008, we and Daiichi Sankyo agreed to terminate our strategic collaboration on CS-917 and return the rights to this product candidate to us. We do not intend to further develop this product candidate. Our clinical experience with our product candidates is limited, and to date our product candidates have been tested in less than the number of patients that will likely need to be studied to gain regulatory approval. The data collected from clinical trials with larger patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of these product candidates. In addition, the requirements for regulatory approval of our product candidates may change, making it more difficult for us to achieve such approval in a timely manner or at all. For example, in February 2008 the FDA released draft guidance regarding clinical trials for product candidates treating diabetes that may result in more stringent requirements for the clinical testing and regulatory approval of such product candidates. This and any future guidance that may result from recent FDA advisory panel discussions may make it more expensive to develop and commercialize such product candidates. Such increased expense could make it more difficult to obtain favorable terms in the collaborative arrangements we require to maximize the value of our programs seeking to develop new product candidates for diabetes. We currently do not have strategic collaborations in place for any of our current product candidates in clinical development. Therefore, in the future, we and/or any potential future collaborative partner will be responsible for establishing the targeted endpoints and goals for development of our product candidates. These targeted endpoints and goals may be inadequate to demonstrate the safety and efficacy levels required for regulatory approvals. Even if we believe data collected during the development of our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support marketing approval by the FDA or other regulatory agencies abroad. Further, data generated during development can be interpreted in different ways, and the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may interpret such data in different ways than us or our collaborators. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates would prevent our receipt of regulatory approval, and ultimately the commercialization of these product candidates. We may not be able to enter into collaborations with respect to our core assets, MB07811, MB07803 and our glucagon antagonist program and our non-core assets, pradefovir and MB07133, on acceptable terms, if at all, which would lead to development and commercialization delays. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize the potential product candidates that may be based upon our technologies, including MB07811, MB07803, our glucagon antagonist program, pradefovir and MB07133, we plan to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and assume the future commercialization of some or all of these assets as a component of our strategic plan. However, our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all, or it may take longer than expected to establish new collaborations, leading to development and commercialization delays, which would adversely affect our business. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or commercialization or have other significant adverse implications on our business. Prior to receiving regulatory approval, undesirable side effects observed in human clinical trials or in supportive animal studies with our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt their development and could 36 Table of Contents result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications or adversely affect the marketability of any such product candidates that receive regulatory approval. In turn, this could eliminate or limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate revenues from their sale. Our product candidate may exhibit adverse effects in animal toxicology studies. For example, data from 24-month oral carcinogenicity studies of pradefovir in rats and mice showed that the incidence of rats or mice with tumors was increased in the animals dosed with the highest dose levels tested. As a result of numerous factors which may have included these findings, we entered into an agreement with Schering and Valeant to terminate our agreements for the development and commercialization of pradefovir, and all commercial rights to pradefovir have been returned to us, subject to certain milestone and royalty payments we may be required to make to Valeant should pradefovir be subsequently developed. Our product candidates could also exhibit adverse interactions with other drugs. For example, in earlier clinical trials conducted by Daiichi Sankyo, CS-917, our first generation product candidate for type 2 diabetes which we are no longer developing, was associated with incidents of lactic acidosis in two patients when it was combined with metformin in a Phase 1 clinical trial. After extensive analysis, Daiichi Sankyo concluded that these incidents were likely due to significant interactions with metformin. CS-917 was also associated in a limited number of patients with episodes of hypoglycemia, asymptomatic lactate elevation as well as lactate elevation with clinical symptoms that could be considered signs of lactic acidosis. We are currently conducting clinical trials of our second-generation product candidate for type 2 diabetes, MB07803, which works by the same mechanism as CS-917 and thus may be subject to some or all of the same risks as CS-917. The unique nature of our proprietary HepDirect technology may cause undesirable side effects in future clinical trials or supportive animal studies. In addition, our product candidates may have greater or lesser degrees of potential risk of undesirable side effects relative to other product candidates based on the nature of their molecular targets and the various physiological responses associated with those targets. For example, MB07811 is a product candidate designed to exploit the beneficial hepatic effects of thyroid hormone agonists while avoiding toxicities related to systemic exposure to these types of compounds. If MB07811 is not successful in this regard, it could be associated with undesirable side effects. There are also risks associated with additional requirements FDA may impose for marketing approval in a particular disease. For example, MB07803 is a product candidate to treat patients with type 2 diabetes. FDA has recently issued guidance for companies developing anti-diabetic compounds that require companies to demonstrate that the product will not result in an unacceptable increased risk of cardiovascular effects. There is a risk that our product will not show an acceptable risk level and FDA may require we study more patients for approval, following approval, or even prevent our product from receiving a marketing approval. Our products may require a risk management program that could include but not be limited to patient and healthcare provider education, usage guidelines, appropriate promotional activities, a post-marketing observational study, and on-going safety and reporting mechanisms. Prescribing could be limited to physician specialists or physicians trained in the use of the product or prescribing could be limited to a more restrictive patient population. Any risk management program required for approval of our product candidates could potentially have an adverse impact on our business. Undesirable side effects involving our product candidates may have other significant adverse implications on our business, for example: • we may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all, • our stock price could decline, • our collaborators may ultimately terminate development of our partnered products, may further decide not to develop backup product candidates and may terminate our agreements, 37 Table of Contents • if these agreements were terminated we may determine not to further develop the affected product candidates due to resource constraints and may not be able to establish additional collaborations for their further development on acceptable terms, if at all, • if we were to later continue the development of these product candidates and receive regulatory approval, earlier findings may significantly limit their marketability and thus significantly lower our potential future revenues from their sale, • we may be subject to product liability or stockholder litigation, and • we may be unable to attract and retain key employees. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product, or we or our partners may decide to cease marketing and sale of the product voluntarily, • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional studies, change the labeling of the product, or change the product’s manufacturing facilities, and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. We are currently dependent on our collaborations with Merck and Roche for the development and commercialization of product candidates related to those collaborations, and we may be dependent on future collaborators for the development of our current and future product candidates. Events involving our collaborations with Merck and Roche, or any future collaborations could prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates and achieving or sustaining profitability. We have entered into two collaborations with Merck and a collaboration with Roche. The first collaboration with Merck sought to develop and commercialize new products for treating hepatitis C infection and the second seeks to develop and commercialize new products to treat type 2 diabetes and potentially other metabolic diseases. Our collaboration with Roche seeks to develop new products for treating hepatitis C. The sponsored research term of our hepatitis C collaboration with Merck has ended. The sponsored research term of our AMPK collaboration with Merck continues through June 2009, and the research term of our collaboration with Roche continues through July 2010. Although our collaborations with Merck and Roche have not yet yielded any product candidates, should they ultimately be successful, we will be dependent on Merck and/or Roche, as applicable, for further development and commercialization of any resulting product candidates. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that Merck or Roche or any future collaborators devote to our programs or potential product candidates. These collaborations with us may end or may be terminated or our collaborators may otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop product candidates that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. In the event that one of our collaborations is terminated, and we believe that the continued development or commercialization of a product candidate or drug compound covered by the collaboration is warranted, we may seek to obtain rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate or drug compound, if we do not already have those rights. We would then determine whether to continue the development or commercialization of the product candidate or drug compound independently or together with a new collaborator. However, in the event that we do not have sufficient resources to independently develop or commercialize the product candidate or drug compound, and we cannot establish a new collaboration on acceptable terms, we 38 Table of Contents would be forced to discontinue its development or commercialization. For example, at this time, we do not intend to independently develop pradefovir or MB07133 and intend to license or sell these product candidates. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products or drug compounds covered by our present and future collaborations if: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements, • our product candidates do not meet the primary endpoints of any clinical trials conducted on them or exhibit undesirable side effects, • we are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or our proprietary HepDirect technology we discover in our collaborations, • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations, • our potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions, • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors, • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our product candidates, • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators, • consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential collaborators, or • we are unable to negotiate additional collaboration agreements under terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to develop or commercialize our products as a result of the occurrence of any of these events, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability. Because our collaborations with Merck and Roche may involve Merck’s or Roche’s proprietary compounds, if Merck or Roche terminates development of product candidates containing these compounds, we may not have the right to pursue development of these product candidates on our own. The objective of our hepatitis C collaboration with Merck was to discover product candidates for the treatment of this disease by applying our technology to certain compounds provided by Merck. The funded research phase of this collaboration has ended. If Merck so designates a product candidate and then subsequently terminates this collaboration before a defined stage of development of that product candidate, which it may do without cause at any time upon 90 days’ advance written notice to us, we will not have any right to develop or commercialize that product candidate. In addition, if this collaboration with Merck terminates and Merck successfully develops products based on these proprietary compounds without applying our technology, we will not be entitled to milestone payments or royalties with respect to those products. Our agreement with Merck to develop and commercialize new products to treat type 2 diabetes and potentially other metabolic diseases may include the development of compounds owned or controlled by Merck. Accordingly, if Merck terminates this collaboration, it may prove difficult for us to continue development of such compounds. Our agreement with Roche to develop new products to treat hepatitis C infection may include the development of compounds owned or controlled by Roche. If our collaboration with Roche is terminated, we may not have any right to develop product candidates developed in connection with the collaboration. 39 Table of Contents Conflicts may arise between us and any of our collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with Merck or Roche or any future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability: • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay us research funding, milestone payments or royalties we believe are due to us under our collaboration agreement, • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations or independently pursuing the development and/or commercialization of product candidates, or disagreements with our collaborators regarding the protection of intellectual property rights, • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities, or • slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates. Our efforts to discover product candidates beyond our current product candidates may not succeed, and any product candidates we recommend for clinical development may not actually begin clinical trials. We intend to use our proprietary HepDirect technology and our knowledge and expertise to develop novel drugs to address some of the world’s most widespread and costly chronic diseases. We intend to expand our existing pipeline of core assets by advancing drug compounds from current on-going discovery programs into clinical development. However, the process of researching and discovering drug compounds is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable. Data from our current discovery programs may not support the clinical development of our lead compounds or other compounds from these programs, and we may not identify any additional drug compounds suitable for recommendation for clinical development. Moreover, any drug compounds we recommend for clinical development may not demonstrate, through preclinical testing, indications of safety and potential efficacy, that such drug compounds warrant advancement into clinical trials. Such findings would potentially impede our ability to maintain or expand our clinical development pipeline. Our ability to identify new drug compounds and advance them into clinical development also depends upon our ability to fund our research and development operations, and we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. For example, we recently implemented a restructuring plan that resulted in the suspension of certain discovery programs in order to preserve our cash and focus our resources on the clinical development of our core assets, MB07811 and our TRß agonist discovery program. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to establish strategic collaborations. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, delays related to: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial, • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites, 40 Table of Contents • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate or other materials necessary to conduct the clinical trial, • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial, and • the failure of our collaborators to adequately resource our product candidates due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, it may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols, • inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, • unforeseen safety issues, or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience significant delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing, our product development costs may increase, we may lose any competitive advantage associated with early market entry and our ability to establish strategic collaborations may be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. In addition, given our limited financial resources, a delay in our 12-week Phase 2 clinical trial for MB07811 would negatively impact our business, including our ability to complete the study. We rely on third parties in connection with the development of our product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully meet their obligations under our agreements, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist in the development of MB07811 and intend to rely on similar organizations to assist in the development of any other future product candidates that we may develop for which a collaborator is not responsible for development. At this time, we do not intend to independently develop MB07803, our glucagon antagonist program, pradefovir or MB07133 and intend to establish strategic collaborations, license or, as in the case of our non-core assets, sell these product candidates. We may rely on strategic collaborators for the development of our other core metabolic disease assets, MB07811 and our TRß agonist program, in the future. If successful in entering into these future collaborations and license agreements, we will be dependent upon our collaborative partners and licensees for the further development and commercialization of these product candidates. Although our collaborations with Merck and Roche have not yet yielded product candidates, should they do so, we will be dependent on Merck and/or Roche, as applicable, to conduct the development of any resulting product candidates. If Merck or Roche or these other third parties do not successfully meet their obligations under our agreements, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to applicable protocols or for other reasons, clinical trials or other studies may be extended, delayed or terminated, and these product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. 41 Table of Contents Because our product candidates, research programs and collaborative efforts depend on our proprietary HepDirect technology, adverse events affecting our proprietary HepDirect technology may delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We applied our HepDirect technology to pradefovir, MB07811 and MB07133, and have applied it in certain other programs as well. We intend to use this and future proprietary technologies to expand our product pipeline in the future. We may also leverage our HepDirect and other liver-targeting technology through strategic alliances and collaborations with other companies, such as our hepatitis C collaboration with Roche in which we applied our technology to certain Roche compounds. Our proprietary HepDirect technology is subject to many of the same risks as our product candidates, including risks related to: • obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection, • avoiding infringement of the proprietary rights of third parties, • the development of competing technologies by others, and • the safety and effectiveness of this technology in humans. Because certain of our product candidates and research programs are dependent on our proprietary HepDirect technology, adverse events affecting our proprietary HepDirect technology may in turn delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability. Our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the U.S. and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. In the U.S., neither we, nor our collaborators, are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of an NDA, from the FDA or receive similar approvals abroad. The process of obtaining these approvals is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Approval policies or regulations may change and may be influenced by the results of other similar or competitive products. For example, in February 2008 the FDA released draft guidance regarding clinical trials for product candidates treating diabetes that may result in more stringent requirements for the clinical testing and regulatory approval of such product candidates. This and any future guidance that may result from recent FDA advisory panel discussions may make it more expensive to develop and commercialize such product candidates. Such increased expense could make it more difficult to obtain favorable terms in the collaborative arrangements we require to maximize the value of our programs seeking to develop new product candidates for diabetes. In addition, as a company, we have not previously filed NDAs with the FDA or filed similar applications with other foreign regulatory agencies. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA or other foreign regulatory agency approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our product candidates for which development and commercialization is our responsibility. Despite the time and expense invested, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe and effective, • FDA or other foreign regulatory agency officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials generated during development sufficient, • the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may not approve of our third-party manufacturers’ processes or facilities, or • the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. 42 Table of Contents Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, these approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Even if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, our product candidates may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. If any of our product candidates receive regulatory approval, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidates or impose on-going requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product candidates will also be subject to on-going FDA and other foreign regulatory agency requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or other notices of possible violations, • impose civil or criminal penalties or seek disgorgement of revenue or profits, • suspend regulatory approval, • suspend any on-going clinical trials, • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators, • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements, or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. In order to market any products outside of the U.S., we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks regarding FDA approval in the U.S. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse impact regarding FDA approval in the U.S., including the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we and our collaborators fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we and our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If our competitors have products that are approved faster, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than ours, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition from many different 43 Table of Contents sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Due to the high demand for treatments for liver and metabolic diseases, research is intense and new treatments are being sought out and developed by our competitors. We are aware of many competitive products currently marketed or under development that are used to treat some of the diseases we have targeted. If MB07811 is ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, it would compete with products marketed by several large pharmaceutical companies that currently comprise a large share of the hyperlipidemia market. Major classes of hyperlipidemia drugs include, but are not limited to: • statins, which reduce serum cholesterol levels by inhibiting a key enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of cholesterol, • fibrates, which reduce the amount of cholesterol and triglycerides (fatty substances) in blood, • nicotinic acid derivatives, which lower cholesterol, triglycerides and low density lipoproteins and increase high density lipoproteins, • CAIs, which inhibit the absorption of dietary and biliary cholesterol, • bile acid sequestrants, which bind with cholesterol-containing bile acids in the intestines and remove them in bowel movements, and • statin combination therapies, which combine statins with members of the above-mentioned classes, particularly CAIs. Several large pharmaceutical companies are also developing novel therapies that target hyperlipidemia. These companies may develop and introduce products competitive with or superior to MB07811. Atorvastatin is currently one of the best selling prescription medicines. In addition, generic statins (cholesterol-reducers) have recently been approved in the major pharmaceutical markets and would also compete with MB07811. If MB07803 is ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, it may compete for market share with established therapies from a number of competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies. Such marketed products include, but are not limited to the following classes: • sulfonylureas, which lower glucose levels by inducing insulin secretion from the pancreas. This drug class has been associated with a significant risk of hypoglycemia, • thiazolidinediones, which lower glucose levels by enhancing insulin sensitivity. This drug class has been associated with fluid retention, weight gain and a risk of heart attacks and angina, • hepatic glucose output inhibitors, which lower glucose levels by inhibiting liver glucose production. The only drug in this class is metformin, which, based on a study reported in the medical journal Diabetes, inhibits glucose production by the liver by only approximately 20-25%, even when administered at the maximum allowed dose. Metformin therapy is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis in certain patient populations, including patients with kidney dysfunction. In addition, metformin therapy commonly leads to transient gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea, diarrhea and vomiting, which may compromise patient compliance, • incretin mimetics, which lower glucose by exhibiting many of the same glucose regulating actions of naturally occurring GLP-1. GLP-1 is a peptide that facilitates the response of the pancreas and liver to fluctuations in glucose levels by its action on pancreatic beta and alpha cells. Exenatide injection is currently the only marketed drug in this class, and • DPP-4 inhibitors, which inhibit an enzyme in the bloodstream that cleaves and inactivates GLP-1. Inhibition of DPP-4 thus increases the half-life of endogenous GLP-1 by preventing cleavage and 44 Table of Contents inactivation of GLP-1. The overall effect of drugs in this class is to enhance glucose-dependent insulin secretion and suppress inappropriate glucagon secretion. If pradefovir is ultimately determined safe and effective and approved for marketing, it may compete for market share with established therapies from a number of competitors, including large pharmaceutical companies. Such marketed products include, but are not limited to the following classes: • interferons, which mimic interferon, the naturally occurring infection-fighting immune substance produced by the body, • nucleoside analogues, which are chemically engineered nucleoside compounds that are converted inside cells into other compounds that are structurally similar to the building blocks of DNA and RNA that interfere with the replication of hepatitis B, and • nucleotide analogues, which are chemically engineered nucleotide compounds that are converted inside cells into other compounds that are structurally similar to the building blocks of DNA and RNA that interfere with the replication of hepatitis B. A competitor to pradefovir would be adefovir dipivoxil, which is a nucleotide analogue currently marketed in the U.S. and Europe. Pradefovir and adefovir dipivoxil are prodrugs of the same active drug, PMEA, and therefore may directly compete. In order to effectively compete with adefovir dipivoxil, pradefovir may have to be significantly more beneficial or less expensive than adefovir dipivoxil. Other competitors to pradefovir include the nucleotide analogue, tenofovir, which has been shown to be very effective in treating hepatitis B infection and has recently been approved for marketing in the U.S. and Europe. A competitor to MB07133 would be sorafenib, which is a chemotherapy agent approved in the U.S., Europe and most of Asia for the treatment of primary liver cancer. In addition, companies are developing therapies for other solid tumors which may be efficacious in treating primary liver cancer. These companies may develop and introduce products competitive with or superior to MB07133. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing technologies and therapies that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any which we are developing, or that would render our product candidates obsolete and noncompetitive. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their products sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain supply relationships with collaborators or other third-party manufacturers, we may be unable to develop our products. Our ability to develop our products depends in part on our ability to manufacture, or arrange for collaborators or other third parties to manufacture, our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for development and eventual commercialization. We have relied on a number of suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of MB07811 for use in clinical trials during development. Although our suppliers have manufactured other companies’ products on a commercial scale, we have not yet determined if they are capable of manufacturing our products on a commercial scale. We, our current and potential future collaborators and third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required to manufacture our product candidates, 45 Table of Contents resulting in delays in our clinical trials development and regulatory submissions, in the commercialization of our product candidates or, if any of our product candidates is approved, in the recall or withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, development of large-scale manufacturing processes may require additional validation studies, which the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies must review and approve. Our inability to enter into or maintain agreements with collaborators or capable third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We currently expect that in any future development activities related to MB07811, we will rely on our current suppliers to manufacture these compounds. However, we do not have long-term supply agreements with these third parties, and we may not be able to enter into new supply agreements with them in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, if at all. These third parties may also be subject to capacity constraints that would cause them to limit the amount of these compounds that we can purchase. While we believe alternative sources to manufacture these compounds are readily available, in the event we have to seek such alternative sources we will incur costs associated with identifying and qualifying one or more alternate suppliers. In addition, any resulting interruption or delay we experience in the supply of MB07811 may impede the development of this compound. In addition, we, our collaborators or other third-party manufacturers of our products must comply with CGMP requirements enforced by the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies through their facilities inspection programs. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. In addition, product manufacturing facilities in California are subject to licensing requirements of the California Department of Health Services and may be inspected by the California Department of Health Services, and other applicable regulatory authorities, at any time. We, our collaborators or other third-party manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If we are unable to enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. We do not have a sales and marketing organization, and we have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Although our hepatitis C and metabolic disease collaborations with Merck have not yet yielded a product candidate, should they be successful, Merck will be responsible for worldwide marketing and commercialization of any resulting product candidate subject to, our option to co-promote the product in the U.S. with certain financial assistance from Merck. Similarly, should our hepatitis C collaboration with Roche yield a product candidate, Roche will be responsible for worldwide marketing and commercialization of a resulting product candidate. In order to commercialize MB07811, MB07803, pradefovir, MB07133 or any future product candidates for which we retain commercialization rights, we may be required to develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with a third party to perform these services. Even though we may receive financial assistance from Merck if we exercise our U.S. co-promotion option under our metabolic disease collaboration, developing a sales force for any resulting product or any product resulting from any of our other product candidates is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating sufficient demand for our product candidates. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with collaborators or other third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our product candidates. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenues and may not become profitable. 46 Table of Contents The commercial success of our product candidates depends upon their market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval, our products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy, • relative convenience and ease of administration, • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects, • restrictions on use in combination with other products, • availability of alternative treatments, • pricing and cost effectiveness assuming either competitive or potential premium pricing requirements, based on the profile of our product candidates and target markets, • effectiveness of our or our partners’ sales and marketing strategy, and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates, could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payers of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability, • our ability to distribute our products due to constraints imposed by a risk management plan, • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators, and • the availability of capital. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. In the U.S., given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, in January 2007, the House of Representatives passed the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007. The bill requires the federal government (specifically the Department of Health and Human Services) to negotiate with drug companies over the price of drugs for Medicare participants. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a Medicare prescription drug benefit that began in 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of these legislations, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which is managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other similar proposals will be adopted. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third-party payors including state governments are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the U.S., which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services 47 Table of Contents and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. Restrictions imposed by a risk management plan could limit accessibility and distribution of our products. We may need to further decrease the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing those organizational changes. In November 2008 and January 2009 we committed to two separate restructuring plans that resulted in the aggregate reduction of approximately 60% of our workforce. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff to operate our business and have become even more dependent on existing personnel since the significant workforce reductions. We are more susceptible to remaining team members voluntarily leaving employment with us given the uncertainty of our ability to continue to fund our on-going operations. We are located in southern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, there remains competition for certain skilled personnel in our market. Former employees may seek employment with competitors. Also, when recruiting new personnel, the occurrence of our recent restructurings may make it more difficult to attract new personnel and we may not have the ability to respond rapidly to new growth, if necessary. We may need to further decrease the number of our full-time employees in the event we are unsuccessful in generating sufficient resources to fund our on-going operations or in the event of other adverse business events. Further reducing our workforce may lead to additional unanticipated attrition. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and may leave our employment at will. If our future staffing is inadequate because of additional unanticipated attrition or because we failed to retain or replace the staffing level required to accomplish our business objectives we may be delayed or unable to continue the development of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of the services of certain principal members of our management or scientific staff could delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. We employ these individuals on an “at-will” basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice, subject to the terms of their severance agreements. We have established a scientific advisory board, the members of which assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These scientific advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our scientific advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, including the proprietary HepDirect technology and compounds used in our business. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and/or trade secret protection of our product candidates, our proprietary HepDirect technology and their uses, as well as successfully 48 Table of Contents defending any patents that issue against third-party challenges. We may only be able to protect our product candidates, proprietary HepDirect technology and their uses from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. The filing, prosecution and defense of patents at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain. We may be particularly affected by this because we expect that pradefovir and MB07133, if approved, will be marketed in foreign countries with high incidences of hepatitis B and primary liver cancer, respectively. Decisions or actions regarding patent filing and/or changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Decisions or actions regarding patent filing are complex and we may not be successful in protecting our products from competition. Patent positions for products are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions which may ultimately be decided to the detriment of our products’ competitive positions’ in the U.S. and these other countries. We may not be able to develop patentable products or processes in the U.S. and these other countries, and may not be able to obtain patents from pending applications. Even if patent claims are allowed in the U.S. and these other countries, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. Any patents or patent rights that we obtain in the U.S. and other countries may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. In addition, we are dependent on outside patent firms for advice and action regarding our efforts to secure patents. Should these firms fail to take appropriate action to secure or enforce our patents in a timely manner, or should they provide us with incorrect or inappropriate advice it could be detrimental to our patent positions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents in the U.S. and other countries. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents, • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions, • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies, • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents, • our issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties, • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable, • we may not develop additional proprietary HepDirect technology that is patentable, or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into proprietary information and inventions agreements with our employees and consultants and entering into confidentiality agreements with other third parties to whom we disclose our proprietary information, third parties may still obtain this information without our knowledge and consent. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained 49 Table of Contents and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. may be less willing to protect this information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary HepDirect technology without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary HepDirect technology may infringe. We have not conducted a complete search of existing patents to identify existing patents that our product candidates or proprietary HepDirect technology may inadvertently infringe. We may be exposed to future litigation by the companies holding these patents or other third parties based on claims that our product candidates and/or proprietary HepDirect technology infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our product candidates, proprietary HepDirect technology or their uses, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary HepDirect technology unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. In addition, while we are not currently subject to pending litigation nor are we aware of any threatened litigation, third parties may contact us or our collaborators in the ordinary course of business to bring certain patents to our attention. We and our collaborators evaluate all such communications on a case-by-case basis to assess whether such patents cover our product candidates or proprietary HepDirect technology and if so, whether to seek a license from such third parties. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe on its technology, we may face a number of issues, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business, • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, as well as damages for products developed using allegedly infringing drug discovery tools or methods, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do, • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology, and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. We have conducted searches of U.S. and foreign patents, but cannot guarantee that the searches were comprehensive and therefore whether any of our product candidates or the methods of using, making or identifying our product candidates infringe the patents searched, or that other patents do not exist that cover our product candidates or these methods. There may also be pending patent applications that are unknown to us and may prevent us from marketing our product candidates. Other product candidates that we may develop, either internally or in collaboration with others, could be subject to similar delays and uncertainties. 50 Table of Contents Existing patents and patent applications covering PMEA or prodrugs of PMEA in the U.S. and foreign countries may prevent the commercialization of pradefovir in the future. Our product candidate pradefovir is a prodrug of PMEA. A third party, Gilead, has rights to another product called adefovir dipivoxil that is a non-liver specific prodrug of PMEA. We are aware of third party patents and patent applications in the U.S. and in European and other foreign countries with claims to prodrugs of PMEA. These patents are scheduled to expire in September 2011 overseas and in 2014 in the U.S. Although we do not believe that any valid claim covers pradefovir, we cannot guarantee this. If it is determined that patent claims are valid and cover pradefovir, we may not be able to commercialize pradefovir in such countries, including those in Europe. Further, we are aware that a patent term extension of one of these prodrug patents has been granted in multiple European countries based on the regulatory approval of adefovir dipivoxil thereby extending protection of adefovir dipivoxil in those countries to September 2016. Additional third party patents covering adefovir dipivoxil or PMEA may exist, and may expire later than our expected date of regulatory approval in the country where the patent is in force. Risks Related to Other Legal Matters We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological agents and radioactive isotopes and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We currently contract with a third party to dispose of these materials and wastes. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may also incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations adopted in the future. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates, • injury to our reputation, • withdrawal of clinical trial participants, • costs of related litigation, • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants, • loss of revenues, and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, up to an annual aggregate limit of $10 million. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. 51 Table of Contents If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of biological and hazardous materials. Although we believe our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. While our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination, we do carry separate pollution legal liability coverage that is intended to cover third party claims for bodily injury, property damage and remediation costs. However, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our insurance and/or resources. 