RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Mexico Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico We are a Mexican company with a significant portion of our consolidated assets located in Mexico and 32% of our consolidated net sales derived from our Mexican operations. As a result, Mexican economic conditions could impact our sales and profitability. In December 1994, Mexico experienced an economic crisis characterized by exchange rate instability and significant devaluation of the peso, increased inflation, high domestic interest rates, a substantial outflow of capital, negative economic growth, reduced consumer purchasing power and high unemployment. In addition, the financial crises in 1998 and early 1999 in Asia, Russia and Latin America resulted in instability in the foreign exchange markets and international financial markets. These events resulted in limited liquidity for the Mexican government and for local corporations as well as an increase in interest rates in Mexico. Civil and political unrest in Venezuela or elsewhere could produce similar results. See "—Adverse Developments in Other Emerging Market Countries May Affect Mexico or the Price of Our Securities." Although the Mexican economy declined by 0.3% in 2001, the Mexican economy grew by 0.9% in 2002, by 1.3% in 2003, by 4.4% in 2004, by 3.0% in 2005 and by an annualized rate of 5.5% in the first quarter of 2006. Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Government Policies in Mexico The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy could have a significant 7 effect on Mexican private sector entities, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities. Mexican presidential elections and congressional elections are scheduled for July 2, 2006. No political party in Mexico has a majority in the Congress or Senate. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the lack of alignment between the legislature and the president and any changes that result from the presidential and congressional elections could result in instability or deadlock and prevent the timely implementation of economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business. In the case of our sales of corn flour, governmental policies have affected us negatively in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The elimination of the tortilla subsidy for consumers, coupled with certain government's decisions reduced sales and hurt profits in 1999. Currently, the Mexican government issues corn import permits to various parties, including corn traders, typically based upon the availability of domestic corn, which contributes to the availability and stability of domestic corn prices. However, in the past, particularly during election years, the Mexican government has increased the number of corn import permits, which had the effect of driving down the price of domestic corn, and consequently, reducing sales of corn flour. So far, despite this being an election year, the Mexican government has not implemented any policy aimed at increasing the number of import permits. We currently depend on corn import permits to ensure an adequate supply of corn in low-corn producing regions of the country. We believe that a shortage of corn imports would currently have a greater adverse impact on our results of operations than a surplus in the number of corn imports. In the past, we have been able to obtain sufficient corn import permits to satisfy our corn requirements. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the Mexican government will not take actions that could adversely affect us. See "Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulations." The level of environmental regulations and enforcement in Mexico has increased in recent years. In the past, the Comisión Nacional del Agua ("National Water Commission" or "CNA"), has brought enforcement proceedings against us for fees arising from our alleged water discharges from five of our facilities in Mexico. Of such actions, only one is unresolved. The other proceedings have been resolved favorably. We cannot assure you that that further actions of this type will not be brought against us. We expect the trend toward greater environmental regulation and enforcement to continue and to be accelerated by international agreements between Mexico and the United States. The promulgation of new environmental regulations or higher levels of enforcement may adversely affect us. See "Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings". Devaluations of the Mexican Peso Affect our Financial Performance As of December 31, 2005, 94% of our debt obligations were denominated in U.S. dollars. We generate 50% of our revenues in U.S. dollars, which in 2005 represented 191% of our then outstanding debt obligations. While the dollar revenues we earn may act as a natural hedge for part of our dollar-denominated debt obligations, we have not entered into derivative contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk with respect to the outstanding principal amounts of our debt. As of June 15, 2006 we had exchange rate forward contracts for only part of the interest payments due in 2006 and 2007 on our US$300 million 7.75% perpetual bond, for an aggregate notional amount of U.S.$15.3 million at an average exchange rate of Ps.11.8205 per U.S. dollar. Therefore, we remain exposed to foreign exchange risks that could affect our ability to meet our obligations and result in foreign exchange losses on our dollar-denominated obligations. We posted net foreign exchange losses of Ps.181 million in 2003, Ps.50 million in 2004 and Ps.51 million in 2005. Any significant decrease in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar in the near term may have an adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to meet our dollar-denominated debt obligations. 8 High Levels of Inflation and High Interest Rates in Mexico Could Adversely Affect the Business Climate in Mexico and our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index, was 3.98% for 2003, 5.19% for 2004 and 3.3% for 2005. From January through May 2006, the inflation rate was 0.56%. On June 14, 2006, the 28-day CETES rate was 7.02%. While the substantial part of our debt is dollar-denominated at this time, high interest rates in Mexico may adversely affect the business climate in Mexico generally and our financing costs in the future and thus our financial condition and results of operations. Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of Our Securities and Our Results of Operations The Mexican economy may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors' reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Therefore, adverse economic conditions in the United States could have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy. In addition, in the past, economic crises in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other emerging market countries adversely affected the Mexican economy. We cannot assure you that the events in other emerging market countries, in the United States or elsewhere will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You May Be Unable to Enforce Judgments Against Us in Mexican Courts We are a Mexican corporation (sociedad anónima de capital variable). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of Mexico, and a significant portion of the assets of our directors and executive officers, and a significant portion of our assets, are located in Mexico. You may experience difficulty in effecting service of process upon our company or our directors and executive officers in the United States, or, more generally, outside of Mexico and in enforcing civil judgments of non-Mexican courts in Mexico, including judgments predicated on civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws, against us, or our directors and executive officers. We have been advised by our General Counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Mexican courts of liabilities predicated solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Differences Between Mexican GAAP and U.S. GAAP May Have an Impact on the Presentation of Our Financial Information Our annual audited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Mexican GAAP, which differ in some significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Financial results reported using Mexican GAAP may differ substantially from those results that would have been obtained using U.S. GAAP. We are required, however, to file an annual report on Form 20-F containing financial statements reconciled to U.S. GAAP, although this filing only contains year-end financial statements reconciled to U.S. GAAP for our three most recent fiscal years. See Note 22 to our audited consolidated financial statements. 9 Risks Relating to Our Company Fluctuations in the Cost and Availability of Corn and, to a Lesser Extent, Wheat May Affect Our Financial Performance Our financial performance may be affected by the price and availability of corn and, to a lesser extent, wheat and wheat flour as each raw material represented 27%, 12% and 7% of our cost of sales in 2005, respectively. Mexican and world markets have experienced periods of either over-supply or shortage of corn and wheat, some of which have caused adverse effects on our results of operations. Because of this volatility and price variations, we may not always be able to pass along our increased costs to our customers in the form of price increases. We cannot always predict whether or when shortages or over-supply of corn and wheat will occur. In addition, as described above, future Mexican or other countries' governmental actions could affect the price and availability of corn and wheat. Any adverse developments in domestic and international corn and wheat markets could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The Presence of Genetically Modified Corn and Wheat in Our Products May Have a Negative Impact on Our Sales, Profits or Stock Price As we do not grow our own corn or wheat, we are required to buy these items from various producers in the United States, Mexico and elsewhere. Although we only buy corn and wheat from farmers and grain elevators who agree to supply us with approved varieties of grain and we have developed a protocol to test and monitor our grain for certain strains of bacteria and chemicals that have not been approved for human consumption, we may unwittingly buy genetically modified corn and wheat that is not approved for human consumption. This may result in costly recalls and subject us to lawsuits which may have a negative impact on our sales, profits or stock price. In recent years, various claims have been alleged, mostly in the United States and the European Union, that genetically modified foods are unsafe for human consumption, pose risks of damage to the environment and create legal, social and ethical dilemmas. Some countries, particularly in the European Union, have instituted a partial limitation on the import of grain produced from genetically modified seeds. Some countries have imposed labeling requirements and traceability obligations on genetically modified agricultural and food products, which may affect the acceptance of these products. To the extent that we may be perceived to be a seller of genetically modified foods, this may have a significant negative impact on our sales, profits or stock price or may force us to pay a premium for non-genetically modified foods. Downgrades of Our Debt May Increase Our Financing Costs or Otherwise Adversely Effect Us or Our Stock Price We are currently rated BBB- by Standard & Poor's and by Fitch and Ba1 by Moody's. Any downgrade or changes in outlook could cause our costs with respect to new debt to increase which could ultimately affect our stock price. Regulatory Developments May Adversely Affect Our Business We are subject to regulation in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are health, environmental, labor, taxation and antitrust. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Further changes in current regulations may result in an increase in compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition. 10 Risks Relating to Venezuela Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk, Which May in the Future Have an Adverse Impact on Our Operations and Financial Performance Our operations in Venezuela accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in 2005. The current president, Hugo Chávez, was elected in December 1998. The new constitution, brought into force in December 1999, required new elections, which were held on July 20, 2000. Chávez was re-elected for a six-year term. His election, as a candidate of the Movimiento Quinta República, or MVR, represents a radical disenfranchisement of the Venezuelan population from traditional political parties. Subsequent congressional elections failed to result in the MVR gaining decisive control of the legislative body. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the nature of new policies this administration will continue to adopt. Venezuela's next presidential election is scheduled for December, 2006. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by such policies. In recent years, political instability and civil unrest have plagued Venezuela. The severe civil and political unrest in Venezuela presents a risk to our business that we cannot control and that cannot be accurately measured or estimated. As a result of the nation-wide general strike that took place from early December 2002 to February 2003, Gruma Venezuela temporarily suspended operations for a total of approximately 14 days during such period. In response to such strike and in an effort to shore up the economy and control inflation, Venezuelan authorities imposed foreign exchange and price controls in early 2003. Foreign exchange controls could limit our ability to convert bolívares (the Venezuelan currency) into other currencies and transfer funds out of Venezuela. On February 5, 2003, the Venezuelan government set a single fixed exchange rate for the bolívar against the U.S. dollar of 1,600.00 bolívares to U.S.$1.00. Thereafter, on February 6, 2004, the Venezuelan government set a new single fixed exchange rate for the bolívar against the U.S. dollar of 1,920.00 bolívares to U.S.$1.00. In March 2, 2005, the Venezuelan government set a new single fixed exchange rate for the bolívar against the U.S. dollar of 2,150.00 bolívares to U.S.$1.00. On February 11, 2003, the Venezuelan government established price controls on products such as corn flour and wheat flour, which could limit our ability to raise prices to offset higher raw material costs. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to the fact that (i) portion of our sales are denominated in bolívares, (ii) Gruma Venezuela produces products that are subject to price controls, (iii) part of our sales depend on centralized government procurement policies for its social welfare programs, and (iv) we may have difficulties repatriating dividends from Gruma Venezuela and importing some of our raw material requirements because of the foreign exchange controls. In the case of some of our raw materials, we may also face increasing costs due to the implementation of import tariffs. Risks Relating to the United States We May Be Unable to Maintain Our U.S. Profit Margin in the Face of a Consolidated Retail Environment Net sales in the U.S. constituted 50% of our total sales in 2005. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger and become more sophisticated, our retail customers could demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. There is a risk that we will not be able to maintain our U.S. profit margin in this environment. Risks Related to Our Controlling Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Vote at our Shareholders' Meetings Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs. There can be no assurance that holders of our shares through ADSs will receive notices of shareholder meetings from our ADS depositary with sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to our 11 ADS depositary in a timely manner. Under certain circumstances, a person designated by us may receive a proxy to vote the shares underlying the ADSs at our discretion at a shareholder meeting. Holders of ADSs Are Not Entitled to Attend Shareholder Meetings, and They May Only Vote Through the Depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders' meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders' meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders' meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In addition, such voting instructions may be limited to matters enumerated in the agenda contained in the notice to shareholders and with respect to which information is available prior to the shareholders' meeting. Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Participate in Any Future Preemptive Rights Offering and as a Result May Be Subject to a Dilution of Equity Interest Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, we must generally grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We are under no obligation to, and there can be no assurance that we will, file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. In addition, under current Mexican law, sales by the ADS depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to the holders of our shares through ADSs is not possible. As a result, the equity interest of holders of our shares through ADSs would be diluted proportionately and such holders may not receive any economic compensation. See "Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Preemptive Rights." The Protections Afforded to Minority Shareholders in Mexico Are Different From Those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors and controlling shareholders is not well developed and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. 12 We Have Significant Transactions With Affiliates That Could Create Potential Conflicts of Interest We hold approximately 10.9% of the capital stock of Grupo Financiero Banorte, S.A. de C.V. or GFNorte, a Mexican financial institution. In the normal course of business, we may obtain financing from GFNorte's subsidiaries at market rates and terms. For the past four and a half years, the highest outstanding loan amount was Ps.162 million (in nominal terms) with an interest rate of 8.9%. We purchase some of our inventory ingredients from our shareholder and associate Archer-Daniels-Midland Company, or Archer-Daniels-Midland. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, we purchased U.S. $111 million, U.S.$103 million and US$105 million of inventory ingredients, respectively, from Archer-Daniels-Midland. Transactions with affiliates may create the potential for conflicts of interest. See "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions." Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Affect the Value of Our Shares Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Peso and the U.S. Dollar will affect the U.S. Dollar value of an investment in our shares and of dividend and other distribution payments on those shares. See "Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rate Information." Our Bylaws Restrict the Ability of Non-Mexican Shareholders to Invoke the Protection of Their Governments With Respect to Their Rights as Shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be considered as Mexican in respect of their ownership interests in Gruma, S.A. de C.V. and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments in certain circumstances. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by asking such government to interpose a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to the shareholder's rights as a shareholder, but is not deemed to have waived any other rights it may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to its investment in Gruma, S.A. de C.V. If you invoke such governmental protection in violation of this agreement, your shares could be forfeited to the Mexican government. Our Controlling Shareholder Exerts Substantial Control Over Our Company As of April 27, 2006, Roberto González Barrera and his family controlled directly or indirectly approximately 52.1% of our outstanding shares. Consequently, Mr. González Barrera and his family have the power to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our stockholders, including the declaration of dividends. The interests of Mr. González Barrera and his family may differ from those of our other shareholders. Mr. González Barrera and his family's holdings are described under "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders." Mr. González Barrera has pledged part of his shares in our company to secure some of his borrowings. If there is a default and the lenders enforce their rights against any or all of these shares, Mr. González Barrera and his family could lose control over us and a change of control could result. In addition, this could trigger a default in one of our credit agreements and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For more information about this pledge, see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions." Archer-Daniels-Midland, Our Strategic Partner, Has Influence Over Some Corporate Decisions; Our Relationship With Archer-Daniels-Midland Could Become Adverse and Hurt Our Performance Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 27.13% of our outstanding shares. However, a portion of such interest is held through a Mexican corporation jointly owned with 13 Mr. González Barrera, who has the sole authority to determine how those shares are voted. Thus, Archer-Daniels-Midland only has the right to vote 22% of our outstanding shares. In addition, Archer-Daniels-Midland has the right to nominate two of the 15 members of our board of directors and their corresponding alternates. Subject to certain requirements under Mexican law, Archer-Daniels-Midland may also: initiate civil lawsuits against members of the board of directors, members of the audit committee, and statutory auditors for breach of duty; appoint a statutory auditor; judicially oppose resolutions adopted at shareholder meetings; request the deferral of any vote regarding an issue about which it does not believe it has been sufficiently informed. As a result, Archer-Daniels-Midland may influence the outcome of actions requiring the approval of our shareholders or our board of directors. Mr. González Barrera and Archer-Daniels-Midland have also granted each other rights of first refusal in respect of their shares in our company, subject to specified conditions. Archer-Daniels-Midland owns, directly or indirectly, a 40% interest in Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V., or Molinera de México, and 20% in Azteca Milling, L.P., or Azteca Milling. Upon completion of a series transactions which commenced in April 2006 and are expected to be completed by October 2007, ADM will own a 3% interest in Molinos Nacionales, C.A. (MONACA), or MONACA and 3% interest in Derivados de Maíz Seleccionado, DEMASECA,C.A. or DEMASECA. For more information regarding these transactions, please see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Gruma Venezuela". These subsidiaries account for 30% of our revenue. Although we own a majority ownership interest in these subsidiaries, in each of Azteca Milling and Molinera de México we are required to obtain the consent and cooperation of Archer-Daniels-Midland with respect to certain matters in order to increase our capital expenditures and to implement and expand upon our business strategies. We cannot assure you that our relationships with Archer-Daniels-Midland will be harmonious and successful. Disagreements with Archer-Daniels-Midland could affect the execution of our strategy and, as a result, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Our Antitakeover Protections May Deter Potential Acquirors Certain provisions of our bylaws could make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions in our bylaws may discourage certain types of transactions involving the acquisition of our securities. These provisions could discourage transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Holders of our securities who acquire shares in violation of these provisions will not be able to vote, or receive dividends, distributions or other rights in respect of, these securities and would be obligated to pay us a penalty. For a description of these provisions, see "Additional Information—Bylaws—Antitakeover Protections." We Are a Holding Company and Depend Upon Dividends and Other Funds From Subsidiaries to Service Our Debt We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends primarily upon our receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries. Under Mexican law, companies may only pay dividends: •from earnings included in year-end financial statements that are approved by shareholders at a duly convened meeting; •after any existing losses applicable to prior years have been made up or absorbed into capital; •after at least 5% of net profits for the relevant fiscal year have been allocated to a legal reserve until the amount of the reserve equals 20% of a company's paid-in capital stock; and 14 •after shareholders have approved the payment of the relevant dividends at a duly convened meeting. In addition, Gruma Corporation is subject to covenants in some of its debt and lease agreements which partially restrict the amount of dividends that can be paid, limit advances or loans to us, and require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and balances. For additional information concerning these restrictions on inter-company transfers, see "Item 3. Key Information—Dividends" and "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources." We own approximately 83.2% of the outstanding shares of Grupo Industrial Maseca, S.A. de C.V., or GIMSA, 91.95% of MONACA, 50% of DEMASECA DEMASECA, 80% of Azteca Milling, L.P. (through Gruma Corporation), 60% of Molinera de México, S.A. de C.V. and 10.9% of Grupo Financiero Banorte, or GF Norte. Upon completion of a series transactions which commenced in April 2006 and are expected to be completed by October 2007, we will own a 57% interest in both MONACA and DEMASECA. For more information regarding these transactions, please see "Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Gruma Venezuela". Accordingly, we are entitled to receive only our pro rata share of any of these subsidiaries' dividends. Our ability to repatriate dividends from Gruma Venezuela may be adversely affected by exchange controls and other recent events. See "Item 3. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Venezuela—Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risk." 