RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Mexico Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico We are a Mexican company with 47% of our consolidated assets located in Mexico and 32% of our consolidated net sales derived from our Mexican operations as of December 31, 2006. As a result, Mexican economic conditions could impact our results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced exchange rate instability and devaluation of the peso as well as high levels of inflation, domestic interest rates, unemployment, negative economic growth and reduced consumer 9 purchasing power. These events resulted in limited liquidity for the Mexican government and local corporations. Civil and political unrest in Venezuela or elsewhere could produce similar results. See “—Adverse Developments in Other Emerging Market Countries May Affect Mexico or the Price of Our Securities.” The Mexican economy grew by 0.9% in 2002, by 1.3% in 2003, by 4.4% in 2004, by 3.0% in 2005, by 4.8% in 2006 and by an annualized rate of 2.6% in the first quarter of 2007. However, if the Mexican economy falls into recession, or if inflation and interest rates increase, consumer purchasing power may decrease and, as a result, demand for our product may decrease. In addition, a recession could affect our operations to the extent we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Government Policies in Mexico The Mexican government has exerted, and continues to exert, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities. Mexican presidential and congressional elections took place on July 2, 2006. Felipe Calderón Hinojosa was elected president for the 2006-2012 term. He is the second presidential candidate to be elected from the Partido Acción Nacional, which won for the first time in 2000. No political party in Mexico succeeded in securing a majority in the Congress or Senate. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the potential lack of alignment between the legislature and the president and any changes that result from the presidential and congressional elections could result in instability or deadlock, and prevent the timely implementation of economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business. Governmental policies have negatively affected our sales of corn flour in the past and may continue to do so in the future. We currently depend on corn import permits to ensure an adequate supply of corn in low-corn producing regions of the country. We believe that a shortage of corn imports would currently have a greater adverse impact on our results of operations than a surplus in the number of corn imports. In the past, we have been able to obtain sufficient corn import permits to satisfy our corn requirements. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that the Mexican government will not take actions that could adversely affect us. See “Item 