RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the Cost and Availability of Corn, Wheat and Wheat Flour May Affect Our Financial Performance Our financial performance may be affected by the price and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour as each of these raw materials represented 38%, 9% and 7%, respectively, of our cost of sales in 2013. Mexican and world markets have experienced periods of either over-supply or shortage of corn and wheat as a result of different factors such as weather conditions, some of which have caused adverse effects on our results of operations. Additionally, because of this volatility and price variations, we may not always be able to pass along our increased costs to our customers in the form of price increases. We cannot always predict whether or when shortages or over-supply of corn and wheat will occur. In addition, future Mexican or other countries’ governmental actions could affect the price and availability of corn and wheat. Any adverse developments in domestic and international corn and wheat markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. To manage these price risks, we regularly monitor our risk tolerance and evaluate the possibility of using derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to commodity prices. We generally hedge against fluctuations in the costs of corn and wheat, in particular at our U.S. operations, using futures and options contracts and fixed price supply contracts according to the Company’s risk management policy, but remain exposed to losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to the financial instruments or the supply contracts. In addition, if corn or wheat prices decrease below the levels specified in our various hedging agreements, we would lose the value of a decline in these prices. Our Current or Future Indebtedness could Adversely Affect Our Business and, Consequently, Our Ability to Pay Interest and Repay Our Indebtedness Our level of short and long term indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, increases in prices of raw materials, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and market volatility. Our ability to make scheduled payments on and refinance our indebtedness when due depends on, and is subject to, several factors, including our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and financial conditions, business and other factors, the availability of financing in the Mexican and international banking and capital markets, and our ability to sell assets and implement operating improvements. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Indebtedness.” We May be Adversely Affected by Increases in Interest Rates Interest rate risk exists primarily with respect to our floating-rate peso denominated debt, which generally bears interest based on the Mexican equilibrium interbank interest rate, which we refer to as the “TIIE.” In addition, we have additional interest rate risk with respect to floating-rate dollar-denominated debt, which generally bears interest based on the London interbank offered rate, which we refer to as “LIBOR.” We have significant exposure to interest rate fluctuations due to our floating-rate peso and dollar-denominated debt. As a result, if the TIIE or LIBOR rates increase significantly, our ability to service our debt may be adversely affected. Downgrades of Our Debt May Increase Our Financing Costs or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us or Our Stock Price Our long-term corporate credit rating and our senior unsecured perpetual bond are rated “BB+” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“Standard & Poor’s”). Our Foreign Currency Long-Term Issuer Default Rating and our Local Currency Long-Term Issuer Default Rating are rated “BB+” by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”). Our U.S.$300 million perpetual bond is rated “BB+” by Fitch. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may experience future declines in our credit ratings, with attendant consequences. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-term debt ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the cost of and/or limit the availability of financing, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital when necessary. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We Expect to Pay Interest and Principal on Our Debt with Cash Generated mainly in Dollars or Pesos, as Needed, But Cannot Assure You That We Will Generate Sufficient Cash Flow in the Relevant Currency at the Required Times From Our Operations We had approximately 64.9% of our outstanding debt denominated in dollars, 34.5% in Mexican pesos and 0.6% in other currencies as of December 31, 2013. We may not generate sufficient cash in the relevant currency from our operations to service the entire amount of our debt in such currency. A devaluation of certain currencies or a change in our business could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Increases in the Cost of Energy Could Affect Our Profitability We use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our corn and wheat flour mills and processing ovens for the manufacture of tortillas and related products at our facilities. These energy costs represented approximately 4% of our cost of sales in 2013. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. The cost of energy sources may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy and regulation, war, weather conditions or other unforeseen circumstances. An increase in the price of fuel and other energy sources would increase our operating costs and, therefore, could affect our profitability. The Inadvertent Presence of Genetically Modified Corn Not Approved for Human Consumption in Our Products May Have a Negative Impact on Our Results of Operations As we do not grow our own corn, we are required to buy it from various producers in the United States, Mexico and elsewhere. Although we only buy corn from farmers and grain elevators who agree to supply us with approved varieties of corn and we have developed a protocol in all our operations to test and monitor our corn for certain strains of bacteria and chemicals that have not been approved for human consumption, we may unwittingly buy genetically modified corn that is not approved for human consumption, and use such raw materials in the manufacture of our products. This may result in costly recalls, subject us to lawsuits, and may have a negative impact on our results of operations. In the past, various allegations have been made, mostly in the United States and the European Union, that genetically modified foods are unsafe for human consumption, pose risks of damage to the environment and create legal, social and ethical dilemmas. Some countries, particularly in the European Union, as well as Australia and some countries in Asia, have instituted a partial limitation on the import of grain produced from genetically modified seeds. Some countries have imposed labeling requirements and traceability obligations on genetically modified agricultural and food products, which may affect the acceptance of these products. The movement for GMO labeling in the United States has gathered momentum over the last several years. While ballot initiatives have failed, several states, such as Connecticut and Maine, have passed qualified GMO labeling bills that will impose labeling requirements on food products containing genetically modified organisms if several other states pass similar laws. Vermont recently passed the first non-qualified GMO labeling bill, which, if signed by the Vermont Governor, will impose GMO labeling requirements in 2015. If approved, these requirements may affect the acceptance of these products in such states. To the extent that we may unknowingly buy or may be perceived to be a seller of products manufactured with genetically modified grains not approved for human consumption, this may have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Regulatory Developments May Adversely Affect Our Business We are subject to regulation in each of the territories in which we operate. The principal areas in which we are subject to regulation are health, environmental, labor, taxation and antitrust. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the countries in which we operate may increase our operating costs or impose restrictions on our operations which, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Further changes in current regulations may result in an increase in compliance costs, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” Economic and Legal Risks Associated with a Global Business May Affect Our International Operations We conduct our business in many countries and anticipate that revenues from our international operations will account for a significant portion of our future revenues. There are risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including: · general political and economic instability in international markets; · limitations in the repatriation, nationalization or governmental seizure of our assets, including cash; · direct or indirect expropriation of our international assets; 8 Table of Contents · varying prices and availability of corn, wheat and wheat flour and the cost and practicality of hedging such fluctuations under current market conditions; · different liability standards and legal systems; · developments in the international credit markets, which could affect capital availability or cost, and could restrict our ability to obtain financing or refinance our existing indebtedness at favorable terms, if at all; and · intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our international rights to the same extent as the laws of Mexico. In recent years, we have expanded our operations to Ukraine, Russia and Turkey. Our presence in these and other markets could present us with new and unanticipated operational challenges. For example, we may encounter labor restrictions or shortages and currency conversion obstacles, or be required to comply with stringent local governmental and environmental regulations. Any of these factors could increase our operating expenses and decrease our profitability. Our Business May Be Adversely Impacted By Risks Related to Our Derivatives Trading Activities From time to time, we enter into commodities, currency and other derivative transactions, pursuant to our risk management policy, that cover varying periods of time and have varying pricing provisions. We may incur unrealized losses in connection with potential changes in the value of our derivative instruments as a result of changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, and acts of war or terrorism. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Rate Risk.” We Cannot Predict the Impact that Changing Climate Conditions, Including Legal, Regulatory and Social Responses Thereto, May Have on Our Business Various scientists, environmentalists, international organizations, regulators and other commentators believe that global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters (including, but not limited to droughts, hurricanes, tornadoes, freezes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world. In response to this belief, a number of legal and regulatory measures as well as social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions which some believe may be chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on our results of operations or our financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business in the future. Our Business and Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Global Economic Conditions The global macroeconomic environment has not fully recovered from the downturn commencing in 2008. Subsequent years were characterized by instability in the financial markets and the threat of a continued global economic downturn, primarily as a result of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis and general economic outlook of the Eurozone, the high degree of unemployment in certain countries and the level of public debt in the U.S. and certain European countries. Those developments adversely affected the economy in the United States, Europe and many other parts of the world, including Mexico, and had significant consequences worldwide, including unprecedented volatility, significant lack of liquidity, loss of confidence in the financial markets, disruptions in the credit sector, reduced business activity, rising unemployment, decline in interest rates and erosion of consumer confidence. It is uncertain how long the effects of this global macroeconomic instability will continue and how much of an impact it will have on the global economy in general, or the economies in which we operate in particular, and whether slowing economic growth in any such countries could result in our customers and consumers reducing their spending. As a result, we may need to lower the prices of certain of our products and services in order to maintain their attractiveness, which could lead to reduced turnover and profit or a decline in demand for our products. Any such development could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and lead to a drop in the trading price of our shares. Our Financial Information Prepared under IFRS May Not Be Comparable to Our Financial Information Prepared Under Mexican FRS We adopted IFRS as of January 1, 2011 and prepared our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS differs in certain significant respects from Mexican FRS and U.S. GAAP. 9 Table of Contents As a result of the adoption of IFRS, our consolidated financial information presented under IFRS for fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 may not be comparable to our financial information for previous periods prepared under Mexican FRS available in the market. Our Financial Information Presented in Previous Filings May Not Be Comparable because of the Deconsolidation of Our Venezuelan Operations We ceased to consolidate the financial information of MONACA and DEMASECA (the Venezuelan Companies) as of January 22, 2013, therefore, the results and cash flows generated by such Venezuelan companies for the periods presented in our audited consolidated financial statements, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are reported as discontinued operations. Our audited financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 presented our Venezuelan operations on a consolidated basis and are not comparable to the audited financial statements for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011 included in this annual report. Our financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010 included in this Form 20-F is derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and adjusted to conform to the current presentation adopted in the financial statements included in this Form 20-F. See Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Mexico Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic and Social Conditions in Mexico We are a Mexican company with 46% of our consolidated assets located in Mexico and 39% of our consolidated net sales derived from our Mexican operations as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013. As a result, Mexican economic conditions could impact our results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced exchange rate instability and devaluation as well as high levels of inflation, domestic interest rates, unemployment, negative economic growth and reduced consumer purchasing power. These events resulted in limited liquidity for the Mexican government and local corporations. Crime rates and civil and political unrest in Mexico and around the world could also negatively impact the Mexican economy. See “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of our Securities and Our Results of Operations.” Mexico has experienced periods of slow growth since 2001, primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. The Mexican economy grew by 1.5% in 2008 but contracted by 6.1% in 2009. In 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the Mexican economy grew by 5.5%, 3.9%, 3.9% and 1.1%, respectively. Developments and trends in the world economy affecting Mexico may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Mexican economy is tightly connected to the U.S. economy through international trade (approximately 79% of Mexican exports were directed to the United States in 2013), international remittances (billions of dollars from Mexican workers in the United States are the country’s second-largest source of foreign exchange), foreign direct investment (approximately 32% of Mexican foreign direct investment came from U.S.-based investors in 2013), and financial markets (the U.S. and Mexican financial systems are highly integrated). As the U.S. economy contracts, U.S. citizens consume fewer Mexican imports, Mexican workers in the United States send less money to Mexico, U.S. firms with businesses in Mexico make fewer investments, U.S.-owned banks in Mexico make fewer loans, and the quality of U.S. financial assets held in Mexico deteriorates. Moreover, a collapse in confidence in the U.S. economy may spread to other economies closely connected to it, including Mexico’s. The result may be a potentially deep and protracted recession in Mexico. If the Mexican economy falls into a deep and protracted recession, or if inflation and interest rates increase, consumer purchasing power may decrease and, as a result, demand for our products may decrease. In addition, a recession could affect our operations to the extent we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. Our Business Operations Could Be Affected by Government Policies in Mexico The Mexican government has exerted, and continues to exert, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, as well as on market conditions, prices and returns on securities of Mexican issuers, including our securities. Governmental policies have negatively affected our sales of corn flour in the past and may continue to do so in the future. 10 Table of Contents Mexico held Presidential and Congressional elections on July 1, 2012, in which Enrique Peña Nieto, of political party Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or PRI, was elected. Following these elections, the Mexican Congress continues to be divided, as no political party in Mexico holds an absolute majority in the Senate or House of Representatives. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the lack of alignment between the legislature and the President and any changes that result from the recent Presidential and Congressional elections could result in political uncertainty or deadlock and prevent the timely implementation of political and economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. The Mexican government supports the commercialization of corn for Mexican corn growers through the Agricultural Incentives and Trade Services Agency (Apoyos y Servicios a la Comercialización Agropecuaria, or ASERCA). To the extent that this or other similar programs are cancelled or modified by the Mexican government, we may be required to incur additional costs in purchasing corn for our operations, and therefore we may need to increase the prices of our products to reflect such additional costs. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Regulation.” In 2008, the Mexican government created a program to support the corn flour industry (Programa de Apoyo a la Industria de la Harina de Maíz or PROHARINA). This program aimed to mitigate the impact of the rise in international corn prices through price supports designed to aid the consumer and provided through the corn flour industry. However, the Mexican government cancelled the PROHARINA program in December 2009. As a result of the cancellation of this program by the Mexican government in December of 2009, we were required to increase the prices of our products to reflect such additional costs. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our eligibility for other programs similar to PROHARINA that may be implemented, or that the Mexican government will not institute price controls or other actions on the products we sell, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The level of environmental regulations and enforcement in Mexico has increased in recent years. We expect the trend toward greater environmental regulation and enforcement to continue and to be accelerated as a result of international agreements between Mexico and the United States. The promulgation of new and more stringent environmental regulations or higher levels of enforcement could adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. Devaluations of the Mexican Peso May Affect our Financial Performance Because we have significant international operations generating revenue in different currencies (mainly in U.S. dollars) and debt denominated in various currencies, we remain exposed to foreign exchange risks that could affect our ability to meet our obligations and result in foreign exchange losses. We posted a net foreign exchange gain of Ps.437 million in 2010, a gain of Ps.41 million in 2011, a loss of Ps.82 million in 2012 and a gain of Ps.56 million in 2013. Major devaluation or depreciation of the Mexican peso may limit our ability to transfer or to convert such currency into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. The Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico. The government could, however, institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. High Levels of Inflation and High Interest Rates in Mexico Could Adversely Affect the Business Climate in Mexico and our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation in the past. The annual rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the National Consumer Price Index was 4.40% for 2010, 3.82% for 2011, 3.57% for 2012 and 3.97% for 2013. From January through March 2014, the inflation rate was 1.43%. On April 15, 2014, the 28-day CETES rate was 3.22%. While a substantial part of our debt is dollar-denominated at this time, high interest rates in Mexico may adversely affect the business climate in Mexico generally and our financing costs in the future and thus our financial condition and results of operations. Developments in Other Countries Could Adversely Affect the Mexican Economy, the Market Value of Our Securities and Our Results of Operations The Mexican economy may be, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to adverse developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, economic conditions in Mexico have become increasingly correlated to economic conditions in the United States. Accordingly, the slow recovery of the economy in the United States, and the uncertainty of the impact it could have on the general economic conditions in Mexico and the United States could have a significant adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations. See “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico,” and “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to the United States—Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States 11 Table of Contents Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance.” In addition, economic crises in the United States as well as in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Argentina and other emerging market countries have adversely affected the Mexican economy in the past. Our financial performance may also be significantly affected by general economic, political and social conditions in the emerging markets where we operate, particularly Mexico, Venezuela, Eastern Europe and Asia. Many countries in Latin America, including Mexico and Venezuela, have suffered significant economic, political and social crises in the past, and these events may occur again in the future. See also “Item 3. Key Information —Risks Related to Venezuela— We have Deconsolidated our Interest in the Venezuelan Companies which are currently Involved in Expropriation and Arbitration Proceedings.” Instability in Latin America has been caused by many different factors, including: · Significant governmental influence over local economies; · Substantial fluctuations in economic growth; · High levels of inflation; · Changes in currency values; · Exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; · High domestic interest rates; · Wage and price controls; · Changes in governmental, economic or tax policies; · Imposition of trade barriers; · Unexpected changes in regulation; and · Overall political, social and economic instability. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin America may create uncertainty regarding our operating environment, which could have a material adverse effect on our company. We cannot assure you that the events in other emerging market countries, in the United States, Europe, or elsewhere will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You May Be Unable to Enforce Judgments Against Us in Mexican Courts We are a Mexican publicly held corporation (Sociedad Anónima Bursátil de Capital Variable). Most of our directors and executive officers are residents of Mexico, and a significant portion of the assets of our directors and executive officers, and a significant portion of our assets, are located in Mexico. You may experience difficulty in effecting service of process upon our company or our directors and executive officers in the United States, or, more generally, outside of Mexico and in enforcing civil judgments of non-Mexican courts in Mexico, including judgments predicated on civil liability under U.S. federal securities laws, against us, or our directors and executive officers. We have been advised by our General Counsel that there is doubt as to the enforceability of original actions in Mexican courts of liabilities predicated solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. Risks Related to Venezuela We have Deconsolidated our Interests in the Venezuelan Companies which are Currently Involved in Expropriation and Arbitration Proceedings On May 12, 2010, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (the “Republic”) published in the Official Gazette of Venezuela decree number 7,394 (the “Expropriation Decree”), which announced the forced acquisition of all goods, movables, and real estate of MONACA. The Republic has expressed to GRUMA’s representatives that the Expropriation Decree extends to DEMASECA. 12 Table of Contents As stated in the Expropriation Decree and in accordance with the Venezuelan Expropriation Law (the “Expropriation Law”), the transfer of legal ownership can occur either through an “Amicable Administrative Arrangement” or a “Judicial Order”. Neither method of transfer of titles has been completed. Therefore, as of this date, no formal transfer of title of the assets covered by the Expropriation Decree has taken place. GRUMA’s interests in MONACA and DEMASECA are held through two Spanish companies Valores Mundiales, S.L. (“Valores Mundiales”) and Consorcio Andino, S.L. (“Consorcio Andino”). In 2010, Valores Mundiales and Consorcio Andino (collectively, the “Investors”) commenced negotiations with the Republic with the intention of reaching an amicable settlement. Through Valores Mundiales and Consorcio Andino, GRUMA participated in these negotiations with a view to (1) continuing its presence in Venezuela by potentially entering into a joint venture with the Venezuelan government; and/or (ii) seeking adequate compensation for the assets subject to expropriation. The Republic and the Kingdom of Spain are parties to a Treaty on Reciprocal Promotion and Protection of Investments dated November 2, 1995 (the “Investment Treaty”), under which the Investors may settle investment disputes by means of arbitration before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”). On November 9, 2011, the Investors, MONACA, and DEMASECA validly provided formal notice to the Republic that an investment dispute had arisen as a consequence of the Expropriation Decree and related measures adopted by the Republic. In that notification, the Investors, MONACA, and DEMASECA also agreed to submit the dispute to ICSID arbitration if the parties were unable to reach an amicable agreement. On January 22, 2013, the Venezuelan Government issued a resolution providing the right to take control over the operations of, MONACA and DEMASECA. As a result we concluded that we lost control of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, MONACA and DEMASECA, on January 22, 2013, in accordance with IFRS. As a result of such loss of control, we ceased the consolidation of the financial information of MONACA and DEMASECA starting January 22, 2013 and reported any effects retroactively. Following the notice of the investment dispute on November 9, 2011, on May 10, 2013, VALORES and CONSORCIO (the “Claimants”) commenced an arbitration proceeding against the Republic before the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”). The proceeding is currently pending. The tribunal that presides over this arbitration proceeding was constituted in January 2014. In this arbitration proceeding, Claimants assert that the Expropriation Decree and related measures are in breach of certain provisions of the Treaty. Under the provisions of the Treaty, the Claimants have not yet made a claim for compensation resulting from expropriation, but have made a claim for damages resulting from the Republic’s actions in respect of the property owned by the Claimants. While negotiations with the government have taken place and may again take place from time to time, the Company cannot assure that such negotiations will be successful or will result in the Investors receiving adequate compensation, if any, for their investments subject to the Expropriation Decree. Additionally, the Company cannot predict the results of any arbitral proceeding, or the ramifications that costly and prolonged legal disputes could have on its results of operations or financial position, or the likelihood of collecting a successful arbitration award. The Company and its subsidiaries reserve and intend to continue to reserve the right to seek full compensation for any and all expropriated assets and investments under applicable law, including investment treaties and customary international law. See “Item 8—Legal Proceedings—Venezuela—Expropriation Proceedings by the Venezuelan Government.” We do not have insurance for the risk of expropriation. As disclosed in Note 28 to our audited consolidated financial statements, our income (loss) from our Venezuelan operations was Ps.923 million, Ps.576 million and (Ps.356 million) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our interest in the total net assets of Venezuelan operations was Ps.3,109 million at January 22, 2013 and was accounted for as “Available-for-sale financial asset”. Additionally, at December 31, 2013 certain subsidiaries of GRUMA have accounts receivable with the Venezuelan operations amounting Ps.1,138 million. Venezuela Presents Significant Economic Uncertainty and Political Risks In recent years, political and social instability has prevailed in Venezuela. This unrest presents a risk to our discontinued operations in Venezuela which cannot be controlled or accurately measured or estimated. Venezuelan authorities have imposed foreign exchange and price controls that apply to products such as corn flour and wheat flour, which have limited the ability of MONACA and DEMASECA to increase prices in order to compensate for higher costs in raw materials and to convert bolivars into other currencies and transfer funds out of Venezuela. Pursuant to the foreign exchange controls, the purchase and sale of foreign currency is required to be made at an official rate of exchange, as determined by the Venezuelan government (the “Official Rate”). In addition, U.S. dollars may be acquired in order to settle certain U.S. dollar-denominated debt incurred pursuant to imports and royalty agreements, and for payment of dividends, capital gains, interest payments 13 Table of Contents or private debt only after proper submission and approval by the Foreign Exchange Administration Board (CADIVI). We continue to make appropriate submissions to CADIVI. We expect to be in a position to meet our foreign currency-denominated obligations; however, as long as the system of exchange controls remains in effect, there is no assurance that we will be able to secure the required approvals from CADIVI to have sufficient foreign currency for this purpose. Risks Related to the United States Unfavorable General Economic Conditions in the United States Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Performance Net sales in the U.S. constituted 45% of our total sales in 2013. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively affect the affordability of and consumer demand for some of our products. Under difficult economic conditions, customers and consumers may seek to forego purchases of our products or, if available, shift to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer customer and consumer demand for our products in the United States or in other major markets could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our financial performance. Additionally, as the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and our retail customers grow larger, they could demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Also, our dependence on sales to certain retail and food service customers could increase. There is a risk that we will not be able to maintain our U.S. profit margin in this environment. Demand for our products in Mexico may also be disproportionately affected by the performance of the United States economy. See also “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Mexico—Our Results of Operations Could Be Affected by Economic Conditions in Mexico.” Risks Related to Our Controlling Shareholders and Capital Structure Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Vote at our Shareholders’ Meetings Our shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs. There can be no assurance that holders of our shares through ADSs will receive notices of shareholder meetings from our ADS depositary with sufficient time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to our ADS depositary in a timely manner. Under certain circumstances, a person designated by us may receive a proxy to vote the shares underlying the ADSs at our discretion at a shareholder meeting. Holders of ADSs Are Not Entitled to Attend Shareholder Meetings, and They May Only Vote Through the Depositary Under Mexican law, a shareholder is required to deposit its shares with a Mexican custodian in order to attend a shareholders’ meeting. A holder of ADSs will not be able to meet this requirement, and accordingly is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. A holder of ADSs is entitled to instruct the depositary as to how to vote the shares represented by ADSs, in accordance with procedures provided for in the deposit agreement, but a holder of ADSs will not be able to vote its shares directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so. In addition, such voting instructions may be limited to matters enumerated in the agenda contained in the notice to shareholders and with respect to which information is available prior to the shareholders’ meeting. Holders of ADSs May Not Be Able to Participate in Any Future Preemptive Rights Offering and as a Result May Be Subject to a Dilution of Equity Interest Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as a part of a capital increase, other than in connection with a public offering of newly issued shares or treasury stock, we must generally grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally be permitted to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increases unless (i) we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares or (ii) the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, as well as the benefits of preemptive rights to holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement. We are under no obligation to, and there can be no assurance that we will, file a registration statement with the SEC to allow holders of our shares through ADSs in the United States to participate in a preemptive rights offering. In addition, under current 14 Table of Contents Mexican law, sales by the ADS depositary of preemptive rights and distribution of the proceeds from such sales to the holders of our shares through ADSs is not possible. As a result, the equity interest of holders of our shares through ADSs would be diluted proportionately and such holders may not receive any economic compensation. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Preemptive Rights.” The Protections Afforded to Minority Shareholders in Mexico Are Different From Those in the United States Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the law concerning fiduciary duties of directors, executive officers and controlling shareholders has been recently developed and there is no legal precedent to predict the outcome of any such action. Additionally, shareholders’ class actions are not available under Mexican law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder derivative lawsuits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, our executive officers or our controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Exchange Rate Fluctuations May Affect the Value of Our Shares Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the peso and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of an investment in our shares and of dividend and other distribution payments on those shares. See “Item 3. Key Information—Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rate Information” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Rate Risk.” Mexican Law Restricts the Ability of Non-Mexican Shareholders to Invoke the Protection of Their Governments With Respect to Their Rights as Shareholders As required by Mexican law, our bylaws provide that non-Mexican shareholders shall be treated as Mexican shareholders in respect to their ownership interests in us, and shall be deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of their governments under any circumstance, under penalty of forfeit, in favor of the Mexican government, any participation or interest held in us. Under this provision, a non-Mexican shareholder is deemed to have agreed not to invoke the protection of its own government by requesting the initiation of a diplomatic claim against the Mexican government with respect to its shareholder’s rights. However, this provision shall not deem non-Mexican shareholders to have waived any other rights they may have, including any rights under the U.S. securities laws, with respect to their investment in us. Our Controlling Shareholder Exerts Substantial Control Over Our Company As of April 25, 2014, Ms. Graciela Moreno Hernández, the widow of the late Mr. Roberto González Barrera, and certain of her descendants (the “Primary Shareholder Group”) controlled approximately 55.65% of our outstanding shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Changes in Capital stock.” Consequently, the Primary Shareholder Group, acting together, has the power to elect the majority of our directors and to determine the outcome of most actions requiring approval of our stockholders, including the declaration of dividends. The interests of the Primary Shareholder Group may differ from those of our other shareholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders.” We cannot assure you that the Primary Shareholder Group will continue to act together for purposes of control. Additionally, the Primary Shareholder Group may pledge part of its shares in us to secure any future borrowings. If such was the case and the Primary Shareholder Group were to default on its payment obligations, the lenders could enforce their rights with respect to such shares and the Primary Shareholder Group could lose its controlling interest in us resulting in a change of control. A change of control could trigger a default in some of our credit agreements and the indenture governing our perpetual bonds outstanding, all together, in an aggregate prinicipal amount of U.S.$983.5 million as of December 31, 2013. Such default could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our Antitakeover Protections May Deter Potential Acquirors Certain provisions of our bylaws could make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions in our bylaws may discourage certain types of transactions involving the acquisition of our securities. These provisions could discourage transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current 15 Table of Contents market price. Holders of our securities who acquire shares in violation of these provisions will not be able to vote, or receive dividends, distributions or other rights in respect of, these securities and would be obligated to pay us a penalty. For a description of these provisions, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Bylaws—Other Provisions—Antitakeover Protections.” We Are a Holding Company and Depend Upon Dividends and Other Funds From Subsidiaries to Service Our Debt We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the shares of our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to meet our debt service obligations depends primarily on the dividends received from our subsidiaries. Under Mexican law, companies may only pay dividends: · from earnings included in year-end financial statements that are approved by shareholders at a duly convened meeting; · after any existing losses applicable to prior years have been made up or absorbed into stockholders’ equity; · after at least 5% of net profits for the relevant fiscal year have been allocated to a legal reserve until the amount of the reserve equals 20% of a company’s paid-in capital stock; and · after shareholders have approved the payment of the relevant dividends at a duly convened meeting. In addition, Gruma Corporation is subject to covenants in some of its debt agreements which require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and balances and, upon an event of default, prohibit the payment of cash dividends. For additional information concerning these restrictions on inter-company transfers, see “Item 3. Key Information—Selected Financial Data—Dividends” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We own approximately 83% of the outstanding shares of Grupo Industrial Maseca, S.A.B. de C.V., or GIMSA; accordingly, we are entitled to receive only our pro rata share of any of its dividends. We also own 76% of MONACA and 60% of DEMASECA. However, as of January 22, 2013, we lost control of MONACA and DEMASECA as a consequence of the actions of the Venezuelan Government. See “Item 3. Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to Venezuela.” 