Item 1a. Risk Factors: In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business common to all businesses, important factors are listed below specific to the company and its industry, which could materially impact its future performance. Competition: The retail food industry is intensely price competitive, and the competition the company encounters may have a negative impact on product retail prices. The financial results may be adversely impacted by a competitive environment that could cause the company to reduce retail prices without a reduction in its product cost to maintain market share; thus reducing sales and gross profit margins. Trade Area: The company's stores are concentrated in central and northeast Pennsylvania, central Maryland and suburban Baltimore regions. Changes in economic and social conditions in the company's operating regions, including the rate of inflation, population demographics and employment and job growth, affect customer shopping habits. These changes may negatively impact sales and earnings. In addition, employment conditions specifically may affect the company's ability to hire and train qualified associates. Business disruptions due to weather and catastrophic events historically have been few. The company's geographic regions could receive an extreme variance in the amount of annual snowfall that may materially affect sales and expense results. Execution of Expansion Plans: In 2007, the company expects to invest $72.5 million for capital expenditures, which includes all store, distribution and manufacturing projects and equipment purchases. Over the next twelve months, the company is planning to build two superstores, including one replacement unit and will continue to invest in its existing store base with eight additions and nine remodels. Circumstances outside the company's control could negatively impact these anticipated capital investments. The company cannot determine with certainty whether its new stores will be successful. The failure to expand by successfully opening new stores as planned, or the failure of a significant number of these stores to perform as planned, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of its operations. Operating Costs: Associate expenses attribute to the majority of its operating costs and therefore, the company's financial performance is greatly influenced by increasing wage and benefit costs, a competitive labor market and the risk of unionized labor disruptions of its non-union workforce. The company's profit is particularly sensitive to the cost of oil. Oil prices directly affect the company's product transportation costs, as well as its utility and petroleum-based supply costs. The company is extremely concerned about the continuing rise in interchange fees for accepting credit card payments at the point of sale. Self-Insurance Exposure: The company is self-insured for a majority of its workers' compensation, general liability, vehicle accident and associate medical benefit claims. The company is liable for associate health claims up to a lifetime aggregate of $1,000,000 per member and for workers' compensation claims up to $2,000,000 per claim. Property and casualty insurance coverage is maintained with outside carriers at deductible or retention levels ranging from $250,000 to $2,000,000. Although the company has minimized its exposure on individual claims, the company, for the benefit of cost savings, has accepted the risk of an unusual amount of independent multiple material claims arising and having a significant impact on earnings. Taxes: The company's future effective tax rate may increase from current rates due to changes in laws and the status of pending items with various taxing authorities. Page 3 of 31 (Form 10-K) Table of Contents WEIS MARKETS, INC. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments: There are no unresolved staff comments. 