Item 1A Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves risks. Investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in our securities. Octane Additives Business The predicted remaining business of the Octane Additives business is concentrated in a relatively small number of customers. Should one or more of these customers choose for economic, environmental, political or other reasons to stop using TEL as an octane enhancer earlier than has been anticipated then the Company’s future operating income and cash flow from operations would be negatively impacted and there could also be a write-off of TEL business goodwill as the forecast discounted cash flow from that business would be reduced. Financial Risks The Company’s existing credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit its ability, among other things, to: • borrow money • use assets as security in other transactions • make investments • make acquisitions • pay dividends or buy back shares Current credit facilities require the Company to meet certain financial ratios including net debt to EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility) and net interest expense to EBITA (as defined in the credit facility). The ability to meet these financial covenants depends upon the future operating performance of the businesses. If the Company failed to meet target covenants then it would be in technical default on the borrowing facility and the maturity of the outstanding debt could be accelerated unless it were able to obtain waivers from the lenders. 10 Table of Contents The Company expects to need to refinance some of the existing debt at the end of the current three and a half year term of the current borrowing facility. Should the Company not be able to secure refinancing on satisfactory terms at that point this would have implications for the continuing operations of the Company. Cost of Raw Materials and Energy The Company buys large quantities of various raw materials and energy for use in the business. Many of the raw materials that we use are derived from petrochemical-based feedstocks which can be subject to periods of rapid and significant price instability. These fluctuations in price can be caused by political instability in oil producing nations, and elsewhere or other factors influencing supply and demand globally. Innospec does not typically enter into hedging arrangements with respect to energy costs or raw materials. Should costs of raw materials or energy increase and should Innospec’s businesses not be able to pass on these cost increases to their customers then operating margins and cash flow from operating activities could be negatively impacted. Should raw material prices increase significantly then the Company’s need for working capital could increase which would negatively impact cash flows from operations. Environmental Risks The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to land and water and the generation, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. The Company is also required to obtain various environmental permits and licenses many of which require periodic notification and renewal. The Company operates on a number of manufacturing sites. The Company’s historic operations, and the historic operations of companies who have previously operated on sites that the Company has acquired, entail the risk of environmental contamination of the properties that it owns or has owned. This may result in fines or criminal sanctions against the Company or may entail the Company in material costs to remediate historic contamination. The Company further anticipates that certain production facilities may cease production in the medium to long term. On closure of some of these production operations in the future the Company expects to be subject to environmental laws that will require production facilities to be safely decommissioned and a degree of environmental remediation to be undertaken. The degree of environmental remediation will depend upon the plans for the future use of the operating sites that are affected and the environmental legislation in force at the time. The Company has currently made a decommissioning and remediation provision based on the Company’s current obligations, the current plans for those sites and current environmental legislation. Should the Company’s future plans for the sites change or should environmental legislation change then these provisions may prove inadequate and this will have a negative impact on future operating income and cash flows from operations. 11 Table of Contents Competition and Market Conditions Certain of the Company’s businesses are subject to intense competition. The Company competes on the basis of a number of factors including product quality and properties, customer relationships and service and regulatory and toxocological expertise. For some products the competitors are larger than the Company’s businesses and may have greater access to financial resources. As a result these competitors may be able to better withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which the Company operates, a change in the prices of raw materials or a change in global economic conditions. Competitors may be able to introduce new products with enhanced features that may cause a decline in the sales of the Company’s products. Consolidation of customers or competitors in the market areas in which the Company operates may cause a loss of market share for the Company’s products or place downward pressure on prices. All of these risks could negatively impact future revenues, gross margins and operating cash flows. Regulatory Risk The Company is currently the subject of an investigation by the SEC into potential violations of federal securities law as a result of transactions conducted by the Company’s wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Alcor Chemie Vertriebs GmbH, under the United Nations Oil For Food Program. The Company has also made a voluntary disclosure to U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) regarding dealings with Cuba by certain of the Company’s current and former subsidiaries. The Company has made provision for legal expenses and potential penalties in respect of these matters where this is feasible. However should the Company’s estimates prove to be inadequate then this could have a material impact upon the Company’s operating income and cash flows from operations. Currency Risk The Company generates revenues and incurs operating costs in currencies other then the US dollar. As a result currency fluctuations between the US dollar and other currencies, predominantly the euro and sterling will continue to have an impact upon the Company’s future financial performance. The Company cannot accurately predict the nature or extent of future exchange rate variability. While the Company takes steps to manage currency exposure by entering into hedging transactions this cannot eliminate all exposure to future exchange rate variability and this could materially impact future operating income and cash flows from operations. Pensions Risk The Company operates a defined benefit scheme in the UK although this scheme is now closed to new entrants without trustee discretion. This scheme has a large number of deferred and current pensioners. Should future investment returns prove insufficient to meet future obligations or should future obligations increase due to actuarial factors or changes in pension legislation then the Company may be required to inject additional funds into this scheme. This could have a material impact on future operating income and cash flows from operations. 12 Table of Contents Product Risk Many of the Company’s products are required to be registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and with comparable governmental agencies elsewhere. Such registration is subject to periodic review and is subject to the requirement to produce product data. The European Union is currently considering additional legislation known as the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemical substances regulation (“REACH”) which would require most of the Company’s products to be registered with EU Authorities. Under this legislation the Company must demonstrate the continuing safety of its products. This registration will require the Company to incur expense to test and register its products. While the Company expects that its products will be approved for re-registration after testing it is possible that certain products may not be reregistered if the test data proves unsatisfactory. In such an outcome some of the Company’s products may be restricted or banned in the EU. Item B Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents 