D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may suffer a loss on your investment. Risk Relating to Our Business The length of a sales cycle is variable, can be long and involves the expenditure of significant resources on our part, and may never result in actual sales. The sales cycle, from our initial contact with a potential customer to the signing of a license agreement, has historically been variable and sometimes does not result in actual sales. During the recent economic downturn which began in 2008, we observed a protraction in the length of sales cycles. These lengthened cycles have continued even after the downturn, particularly at larger global banks and U.S.-based banks, where any significant expenditure is approached with greater caution than before the downturn. We typically must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources. In addition, the purchasing decisions of our customers are subject to the uncertainties and delays of the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures, particularly in an uncertain economy. If our sales cycles continue to lengthen appreciably, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more than in the past. Additionally, a number of potential clients decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that does not result in revenue, whether because a competitor obtains the desired contract from the customer, the customer decides not to proceed with the project or the customer decides to internally develop the product. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue and operating results. We are, and expect to continue to be, dependent upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our future revenues. We believe that the market for our payments, cash management and securities software products and services consists of a relatively small number of customers who have very large potential accounts. These large accounts may from time to time comprise a significant percentage of our revenues in a specific fiscal period. Our failure to attract and retain these large accounts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into contracts with three large customers for the sale of one of our payments products. Sales to these customers accounted for 20.6%, 20.8%, and 22.1% of our revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cessation of projects of this size, which have an indefinite term, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Presently, these major customers consist of large global banks which had been significantly impacted by the global recession. Although larger financial institutions are again reentering the marketplace for financial transaction solutions following the downturn, a significant portion of our anticipated future revenues may be impacted by the financial issues continuing to face these larger customers. See Item 5, “Operating Results and Financial Review and Prospects – Major Customers.” Greater market acceptance of our competitors’ products or bank reliance on internally developed products could result in reduced revenues. While the market for our solutions continues to develop, with expansion into Asia and South America showing signs of accelerating, competition for the business of global or national and regional financial services organizations that seek to support complex and sophisticated products remains intense. Also, some larger financial institutions have developed products that are similar in function to our global payments, FX settlement and cash management products, in lieu of purchasing our products. These internally developed solutions may then be marketed to other banks or implemented in banks that they have acquired. Thus we may compete with both software vendors within our industry and the in-house IT departments of certain of our potential clients. In some instances, customers may seek to develop part of a given solution, such as interfaces, in an attempt to retain staff and/or control costs. This could result in a reduction of successful bid projects. Our competitors currently include, but are not limited to, BankServ, Logica PLC, Digital Insights, Inc., S1 Corporation, Fidelity Information Services, Banklink, TietoEnator, Sunguard, Smartstream Technologies, ACI Worldwide Inc., Dovetail, Fiserv, GIFTS Software, Bottomline, Technologies, Nucleus Software, Goldleaf Financial Solutions, EFunds, OB, Harbor Payments, Clear2Pay and Sterci. 3 We believe that there are several principal competitive factors in the industry in which we operate, including: · product performance; · technical features; · compatibility with existing operating systems; · reliability; · security; · relational database power; · price; · customer service and support; and · ease of use. Our competitors may be in a better position to devote significant funds and resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, thus enabling them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or preferences. We also expect that competition will intensify as a result of consolidation within the industry and in response to the recent global economic downturn. Additionally, as we develop new products, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. We may be unable to differentiate our products from the products of our competitors or successfully develop and introduce new products that are less costly than, or superior to, those of our competitors. In addition, existing and new competitors may establish relationships with our existing and potential customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete effectively. A number of our existing and potential competitors have, or are likely to have, more extensive engineering, development, marketing, distribution, financial, technological and personnel resources than us. This increased competition may result in our loss of market share and pricing pressure which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that competition with both competitors within our industry and with the in-house IT departments of certain of our clients or prospective clients will not result in price reductions for our products and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced revenues or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — Business Overview — Competition.” Marketing and distributing our products outside of the United States may require increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We market and sell our products and services throughout the world. We received 59.3% of our total revenues in 2008, 58.8% of our total revenues in 2009 and 56.3% of our total revenues in 2010 from sales to customers located outside of the United States. The continued market and sale of our products outside the United States as well as the expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We are subject to a number of risks customary for international operations, including: · economic or political changes in international markets; · currency and exchange rate fluctuations; · greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; · difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; · the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, particularly in southeast Asia; and · multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. 4 We may be unable to expand our development or support organizations which may hinder our ability to grow and meet customer demands; on the other hand, rapid expansion of these resources could increase our cost and reduce our operating profit. We increasingly have the need to supplement our technical and customer support staff to support both new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers. With the addition of Fundtech India in 2004, we are increasingly looking to India to source these requirements. Since our products are complex, we expect that the training process will continue to require a significant period of time before these employees and other newly hired personnel can support our customers. Qualified individuals are in demand throughout the software industry globally and there is significant competition for qualified personnel. Competition for qualified staff may also lead to increased labor and personnel costs. If we do not succeed in retaining our personnel or in attracting new qualified employees, our business could suffer significantly. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The market for financial institutions payments and cash management solutions continues to develop and evolve. The constant development and evolution of this market makes it difficult to predict demand for our products. We cannot guarantee that the market for our products will grow or that our products will become widely accepted. If the market for our products does not develop in the time frames and with the demand that we have projected, our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition, changes in technologies, industry standards, the regulatory environment, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. A significant increase in the number of customers and/or a significant increase in our development of new product offerings would require us to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources to meet demand. These expenditures could strain our personnel and financial resources. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments into which our products are deployed. Despite testing conducted by us and our customers, some defects have been discovered after commercial shipment of our products. Our products are frequently more critical to our customers’ operations compared to other software solutions used by such customers, and as a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product defects relating to our products. The discovery of defects in current or future products and versions after the start of commercial shipment may result in: · a delay or failure of our products to achieve market acceptance; · adverse customer reaction; · negative publicity and damage to our reputation; · diversion of resources; and · increased service and maintenance costs. Defects could also subject us to legal claims, particularly given that the applications we provide serve important functionalities for our customers. Although our license agreements contain limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not be sufficient to protect us against such legal claims. The sale and support of our products, as well as our professional services, may also expose us to product liability claims. Our business is affected by adverse conditions in the financial services industry and the global economy in general. Our customers are highly concentrated in the financial services industry, which was directly affected both by an industry-specific crisis and the general economic downturn. While major financial institutions have generally recovered from this crisis, we believe that financial institutions, particularly in the United States, continue to be cautious regarding expenditures. We should also note that financial institutions around the world have consolidated and may continue to consolidate which somewhat decreases the overall potential market for our products and services. These factors, as well as other changes occurring in the financial services industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 5 Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. We have in the past made a number of acquisitions and may in the future acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may also engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or at all or that we will have sufficient available resources for such acquisitions or investments. Additionally, if we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, customers, technology or products and service offerings into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions, which would adversely impact our balance sheet or dilute our existing shareholders (as applicable). We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights in our internally developed technology, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. We have spent considerable time, effort and money developing our next generation software. As a general proposition, the larger the number of software installations, the greater the number of individuals who gain access to our products, thereby increasing the risk of misappropriation and infringement. During the period from 2006 through 2010, Global PAYplus® has been installed at 15 banks, PAYplus USA™ at 141 banks and Global CASHplus at 17 banks and CASHplus® has been installed at or operating on behalf of 114 banks. As we continue to increase the number of our product installations, we increase the risk that we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Our intellectual property consists primarily of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent protection. We have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. We have no patents or patent applications pending for our products and services. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by these rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Additionally, we have placed, and in the future may place, our software source code in escrow. The software source code may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers. In certain limited instances, we have also provided our software source code directly to customers. This may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We believe that many industry participants have filed or intend to file patent and trademark applications covering aspects of their technology. We cannot be certain that they will not make a claim of infringement against us based on our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: · be expensive and time-consuming to defend; · cause product shipment and installation delays; · affect the decision by prospective customers to enter into agreements with us; · divert management’s attention and resources; or · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. If we are required to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, such agreements may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Therefore, a successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology at all or to license the infringed or similar technology for reasonable commercial terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Government regulatory policy for the financial services industry affects our business. Our current and prospective customers, which include state and federally chartered banks and savings and loan associations, operate in markets that are subject to extensive and complex regulation. While we are not ourselves directly subject to this regulation, our products and services must be designed to work within the regulatory constraints under which our customers operate. Given the intense regulatory scrutiny and increased regulatory burden to which the financial services industry is subject and will likely continue to be subject in light of the recent crisis in financial markets, this may be a continuous challenge for us in the design of our products and services. The inability of our products and services to work properly within the regulatory framework may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares Our stock ownership is highly concentrated, and, as a result, certain shareholders may influence our affairs significantly. Clal Industries and Investments Ltd., or Clal, owns approximately 55.7% of our Ordinary Shares, or 56.4% when taken together with Ordinary Shares owned by Clal’s affiliate IDB Development Corporation, Ltd. As a result, Clal has the voting power to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and also has the ability to influence the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration in control may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control that otherwise would yield a premium upon the price of our Ordinary Shares. This concentration of ownership also reduces the amount of stock in the public float, which may impact share trading values. We are trending toward a lower percentage of license fees and a greater percentage of service revenues in our revenue models, which tends to compress our margins and adversely affect our share price. Sales to major clients generally already contain a significant services component to implement software globally and also require significant modifications to meet customer specific demands. Additionally, the increasing selection of our application service provider (“ASP”) hosted solution in lieu of our licensed solution, particularly with respect to our CASHplus software, has reduced overall margins and may result in a change in the way our shares are valued by the marketplace. Although we continue to believe that a solutions and hosting based revenue model has numerous advantages, particularly in recurring revenue and visibility into our future earnings, the marketplace may view our share value in light of our solutions-based business differently than it views such value when considering our license-based business. This may lead to volatility in our share price. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be volatile. The stock market in general, including the technology market sector in particular, has historically experienced price and volume fluctuations. Additionally, it is unclear when technology company stocks will fully rebound from the decline in market values experienced during the recent downturn. For additional information on our stock price performance during this period, see the table in Item 9, “The Offer and Listing — Market Price Information.” Market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof); · any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors, or the financial services industry; · our inability to meet any guidance or forward looking information, which we provide from time to time; · the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; · changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; · changes in accounting principles; · tender offers for our shares initiated due to Israeli law requirements; · sales of our Ordinary Shares by existing shareholders; · the loss of any of our key personnel; and · changes in political conditions in Israel. 7 In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results, which makes it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price for our Ordinary Shares. Our quarterly revenues, margins and results of operations have fluctuated in the past as a result of various factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include: · changes in global economic conditions in general, and conditions in our industry and target markets in particular; · impact of unrest or political instability in the places we do business, such as in Israel; · currency fluctuations; · the size, timing and shipment of orders for our products and services; · our customers’ budget cycles; · the timing of the release of new product upgrades; · any lengthening of our sales cycle; · changes in the proportion of service and license revenues; · price and product competition; · enhancements or introductions of products and services by us and our competitors; · the mix of product sales; · software “bugs” or other product quality problems; · product pricing; · our effectiveness in providing customer support; · delays in implementation; and · consolidation of our customers. A substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. If our projected revenue does not meet our expectations as occurred in the latter part of 2008, we are likely to experience a shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. In addition, our results may be impacted by fluctuations in the values of currencies in which certain of our fees are paid, such as British Pounds and Euros, against the United States Dollar, our reporting currency. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication of future performance. It is also possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Should this happen, the price of our Ordinary Shares may decrease. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East as a whole, could negatively impact our business. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel have a direct influence on us because one of our significant research and development facilities and one of our executive offices is located there. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Hostility between factions in neighboring countries, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel, acts of terrorism or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that ongoing hostilities related to Israel, or the recent events in Egypt and other Middle Eastern nations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or on our share price. Several Arab and Muslim countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. Any on-going or future violence between Israel and the Palestinians, armed conflicts, terrorist activities, tension along the Israeli-Lebanese or the Israeli-Syrian borders, or escalating political instability in the region could disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus, there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain of these countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. In addition, such boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices may change over time and we cannot predict which countries, as well as whether certain companies and organizations, will be subject thereto. The boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our business in the future. 8 Some of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty, depending on their age and position in the Israeli army. Additionally, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our senior officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. We believe that we have operated effectively given these requirements since we began operations. Nevertheless, the full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against our directors and officers in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Many of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions initiated in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. We may be adversely affected if the New Israeli Shekel appreciates relative to the dollar or if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation (if any) of the New Israeli Shekel against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in United States Dollars, Euros or British Pounds Sterling, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS will appreciate relative to the dollar or, if the NIS devalues relative to the dollar, that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed that rate of devaluation or that the timing of such devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Any such trend has the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. Based on the representative exchange rates reported by the Bank of Israel for each year in comparison to the prior year, in 2010, the NIS appreciated relative to the dollar by 5.1%, and the Israeli inflationary rate was 2.7%, thereby furthering the adverse impact of such appreciation, while in 2009, the NIS devalued relative to the dollar by 9.6%, and the Israeli inflationary rate was 3.9%, thereby offsetting, in part, the favorable impact of such devaluation on our dollar-measured results of operations. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel continues to increase, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. The tax benefits available to us from government programs may be discontinued or reduced at any time, which would likely increase our taxes. We have received government grants in the past and currently receive tax benefits under Israeli government programs. To maintain our eligibility for these programs and benefits, we must continue to meet specified conditions. Some of these programs restrict our ability to transfer particular technology outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay increased taxes. The government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs recently and these programs and tax benefits may be discontinued or reduced in the future. 9 The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. From time to time we have received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel (“OCS”) under the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, or the Research and Development Law, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The terms of these grants prohibit us from manufacturing more than 10% of the products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approval. Even if we receive approval to manufacture these products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties, up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the portion of the total manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. A recent amendment to the Research and Development Law permits the OCS, among other things, to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights to outside of Israel in exchange for an import of different manufacturing into Israel as a substitute, in lieu of the increased royalties. The Research and Development Law also allows for the approval of grants in cases in which the applicant declares that part of the manufacturing will be performed outside of Israel or by non-Israeli residents and the research committee is convinced that doing so is essential for the execution of the program. Despite these leniencies afforded under the Research and Development Law and the recent amendment adopted thereto, if we desire to transfer more than an insubstantial portion of our manufacturing processes to contractors outside of Israel, we may be required to obtain the consent of the OCS and pay higher royalties to the OCS, which may reduce or eliminate entirely the profitability of effecting such a transfer. The Research and Development Law also provides that the technology and know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to third parties inside or outside of Israel without the approval of the OCS (and, in the case of a transfer outside of Israel, absent certain circumstances). Such approval is not required for the sale or export of any products resulting from such research or development. Even if we receive approval to a transfer of technology outside of Israel, a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer equal to the ratio of the aggregate amount of OCS grants received by us to the aggregate amount of all cash investments made in such technology, including the OCS grants, must be paid to the OCS. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties, and we may be subject to criminal charges. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our Approved Enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor has granted “Approved Enterprise” status to investment programs at our former facility in Ramat Gan. Assuming that we receive approval from the Investment Center for the transfer of these Approved Enterprise programs to our new facility in Herzliya, when we begin to generate taxable income from these programs, the portion of our income derived from such programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional five to eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an Approved Enterprise Program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, or fail to get approval in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for non-Approved Enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an Approved Enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. For additional information regarding our Approved Enterprise status, see Item 10, “Additional Information — Taxation – Israeli Income Tax Considerations — Tax Benefits Under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 5719-1959.” Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our Memorandum of Association, Articles of Association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising rights and fulfilling obligations, toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and acquisitions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law 5759-1999 as amended, does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. 10 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control that would otherwise yield a premium to our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and tender offers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us that might otherwise yield to our shareholders a premium upon the market price of our Ordinary Shares. See Item 10, “Additional Information-Mergers and Acquisitions” in this annual report, for additional discussion about some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2010, we cannot assure you that the United States Internal Revenue Service will agree with our position. We would be a PFIC if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year (including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) is passive income, or (ii) the value of our assets averaged quarterly over our the taxable year (including our pro rata share of the assets of any company treated as a corporation for U.S. Federal income tax purposes in which we are considered to own directly or indirectly 25% or more of the shares by value) that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income is at least 50%. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences, including being taxed at ordinary income tax rates and subject to an interest charge on gain from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares and on certain “excess distributions” with respect to our Ordinary Shares. For additional information regarding our PFIC status, see Item 10, “Additional Information — Taxation - United States Federal Income Taxation Considerations - Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” 