D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to the Control of the Company by Svyazinvest and the Government of the Russian Federation" for a description of certain risks relating to our ownership structure and the potential change in control that would occur upon the government's sale of its stake in Svyazinvest. In addition to its indirect ownership stake in us, the Russian government also has general authority to regulate tariffs and regulates domestic long-distance tariffs. The government also regulates the licensing of telecommunications services in Russia. In addition, the government is one of our significant customers, and any decrease in the government's utilization of our network or in the tariffs charged for such utilization could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As a statutory matter, all ordinary shares have equal rights, including voting rights. Other than in connection with the planned privatization of Svyazinvest, we are currently not aware of any existing arrangements that may cause a change of control over us. B. Related Party Transactions As previously noted, we are controlled by Svyazinvest, which holds 50.67% of our voting shares, and representatives of Svyazinvest comprise a majority of our Board of Directors. The government of the Russian Federation, in turn, holds 75% less one share of the voting capital of Svyazinvest and, therefore, ultimately controls us. We engage in various related party transactions, including with other companies controlled by Svyazinvest, such as the Interconnection Agreements, Service Provision Agreements and Agency Agreements descried in "Item 10. Additional Information—C. Material Contracts—Agreements regarding the new system of interaction between Russian operators and subscribers." We also provide services and engage in other transactions with governmental entities or entities controlled by the government, as well with certain of our investees. For more information about related party transactions please refer to Note 27 to our consolidated financial statements. C. Interests of Experts and Counsel Not applicable. Item 8. Financial Information For information with regard to financial statements, please see "Item 18. Financial Statements" and our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. 114 A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 8.A.1-3. See Item 18 8.A.4-6. Not Applicable 8.A.7 Legal Proceedings We are currently involved in various legal proceedings. We do not anticipate that the outcome of any of these legal proceedings will have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Other than as described below, we do not believe that any of these legal proceedings have arisen other than in the ordinary course of our business. •On June 16, 2006, we filed an application to the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow to declare invalid a tax assessment by the tax authorities for additional taxes and fines in the amount of RUR 3.5 million payable by us ("Rostelecom vs. Russian Federal Tax Service"). On March 4, 2007, the court ruled in our favor, decreasing the tax assessment to RUR 1.3 million. The tax authorities appealed this decision, and on September 24, 2007, the appellate court reduced the tax assessment by RUR 1.1 million to RUR 0.13 million. On Aptril 28, 2008, the Federal Arbitrazh Court of Moscow district rejected this appeal and affirmed the previous court decision. •In July 2006, Loral brought an action at the London Court of International Arbitration, or LCIA, against our consolidated subsidiary GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of loan in amount of RUR 225 million. In March 2007, LCIA ruled in favor of Loral. However, in October 2007, the Arbitration Court of the city of Moscow dismissed Loral's claim to enforce the decision of the LCIA. For additional information, see "Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies—A. Defaults." •On August 25, 2006, the tax authorities filed a claim with the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow against us seeking penalties in the amount of RUR 433 million in connection with the preceding court case (Rostelecom vs. Russian Federal Tax Service). At a preliminary court hearing, the proceedings were suspended at the request of both parties pending the court decision on re-opening of the case. •On September 7, 2006, we filed an application to the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow to declare invalid the letter dated July 31, 2006 we received from the tax authorities stating their refusal to reimburse overpaid taxes, and to compel the tax authorities to reimburse overpaid amounts totaling RUR 399 million. Under the decision of the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow dated December 27, 2006, the proceedings were suspended pending the court decision in respect of "Rostelecom vs. Russian Federal Tax Service." The court hearing was scheduled for July 8, 2008. •On July 25, 2007, OJSC MGTS filed a claim with the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow against us seeking payment in the amount of RUR 113 million in connection with our alleged unjust enrichment related to call origination services provided to us by MGTS from January to June 2006 without entering into an agreement. On November 20, 2007, MGTS reduced the claim amount to RUR 95 million. On November 23, 2007, the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow ruled in favor of MGTS. We appealed this ruling to the Ninth Arbitrazh Appellate Court. On April 15, 2008, the appellate court invalidated the lower court's ruling. On June 18, 2008, MGTS appealed this decision to the Federal Arbitrazh Court of Moscow district. A court hearing on this appeal is scheduled for July 17, 2008. •On August 3, 2007, we filed an application to the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow to (a) invalidate a set-off made by the tax authorities of overpaid property tax against a claimed tax deficiency in the amount of RUR 19 million and (b) to require the tax authorities to set off this 115 overpaid property tax against our current profit tax liability in the amount of RUR 82.3 million. On December 26, 2007, the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow satisfied our claim in full. •On November 1, 2007, we filed a claim against OJSC First Channel seeking payment of a principal debt in the amount of RUR 26 million and a fine in the amount of RUR 2 million (totaling RUR 28 million) for telecommunications services provided by us from May to June 2007. On January 17, 2008, the court partially satisfied our claim and awarded us RUR 27 million, including a principal debt in the amount of RUR 26 million and a fine in the amount of RUR 0.8 million. •On November 11, 2007, we filed an application to the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow to (a) invalidate a set-off by the tax authorities of overpaid property tax against a claimed tax deficiency in the amount of RUR 19 million, and (b) to reimburse overpaid taxes in the amount of RUR 63 million and RUR 22 million and the corresponding penalties in the amount of RUR 0.8 million. On January 15, 2008, the Arbitrazh Court of the city of Moscow suspended the proceedings pending a court decision in connection with a different claim filed by us on August 3, 2007, which is described above. As of the date of this annual report, there have been no court proceedings involving a member of our Board of Directors or a member of the Management Board, or any of our affiliates acting as an opposing party to us or our subsidiaries. 8.A.8 Policy on Dividend Distribution The Joint Stock Companies Law provides that dividends on ordinary shares may be paid on a quarterly basis. Our charter provides that dividends may be paid on an annual basis (although the relevant provisions of the Joint Stock Companies Law prevail). Annual dividends are proposed by our Board of Directors, based on our year-end statutory accounting reports prepared in accordance with RAS, and are approved by the annual shareholders' meeting, which is usually convened by the Board of Directors during the second quarter of each year. The right to receive dividends is attributable only to shareholders included in the register of shareholders as of the record date, which was April 22, 2008, for dividends in respect of 2007. Under Russian law, dividends payable to shareholders may not exceed the amount proposed by the Board of Directors. The decision on payment of dividends, as well as the amount and form of the dividend payable, is adopted by the shareholders' meeting. Dividends payable on preferred shares are fixed by our charter in the amount of 10% of our net profits, based on our year-end statutory accounting reports, divided by the total number of preferred shares. We may not pay dividends on ordinary shares unless dividends on preferred shares are paid in full. Furthermore, in the event the amount of dividends paid per ordinary share exceeds dividends payable per preferred share, the shareholders' meeting should increase the amount of dividends per preferred share up to the amount of dividends per ordinary share. Our Dividend Policy is available in English on our corporate website at http://www.rt.ru/en/centr- invest/shar-services/dividends/. See also "Item 10. Additional Information—B. Description of Charter Capital and Certain Requirements of Russian Legislation" for a further description of our ordinary and preferred shares and the payment of dividends thereon. 116 B. Significant Changes The following significant changes have occurred relating to our investments in subsidiaries and associates since December 31, 2007, as well as to our share registrar and management team: Acquisition In March 2007, we acquired through Westelcom, our 100% subsidiary, a 25.99% stake in OJSC InfoTeX Taganrog Telecom from LLC InfoTeX Telecom for a total cash payment of approximately RUR 24 million. As a result, we currently own indirectly a 99.99% stake in OJSC InfoTeX Taganrog Telecom. Divestitures In February 2008, we sold our 10.97% interest in Golden Telecom to Lillian Acquisition, Inc., a subsidiary of Vipmelcom, for a total cash consideration of approximately $463.8 million. Changes in Board Composition As of December 31, 2007, our Board of Directors comprised: 1.Mikhail A. Alexeev; 2.Yevgeny A. Chechelnitsky, Deputy Head of the Federal Communications Control Service; 3.Valery V. Degtyarev, General Director of Professional Telecommunications; 4.Anatoly A. Gavrilenko, General Director of Asset Management Company Leader; 5.Alexander N. Kiselev, General Director of Svyazinvest, Chairman of the Board of Directors; 6.Sergei I. Kuznetsov; 7.Yevgeny I. Logovinsky, Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of SOGAZ Insurance Group ; 8.Nikolai L. Mylnikov, Director of Legal Department of CIT Finance Investment Bank; 9.Elena P. Selvich, Director of Finance Department of Svyazinvest; 10.Maxim Yu. Tsyganov, Moscow office Managing Director of CIT Finance Investment Bank; 11.Yekaterina O. Vasilyeva, Director of Corporate Finance Department of CIT Finance Investment Bank. On June 9, 2008, Valery V. Degtyarev and Anatoly A. Gavrilenko ceased to be members of our Board of Directors, and the following individuals were elected to our Board of Directors: 1.Konstantin Yu. Solodukhin, General Director of Rostelecom; and 2.Vladimir B. Zhelonkin, Deputy General Director of Svyazinvest. Changes to Management As of December 31, 2007, our Management Board comprised: 1.Sergei L. Akopov, Director of Administrative Department of Rostelecom; 2.Andrei Yu. Baklykov, Director of IT Department of Rostelecom; 3.Roman A. Frolov, Chief Accountant of Rostelecom; 4.Andrei A. Gaiduk, First Deputy General Director—Finance Director of Rostelecom; 5.Yevgeny V. Gerasimov, Deputy General Director—Director of North-Western Branch of Rostelecom; 117 6.Dmitry M. Gurevich, Director of Project Management Department of Rostelecom; 7.Rodion S. Levochka, Director of Products and Marketing Department of Rostelecom; 8.Vladimir K. Mironov, Deputy General Director of Rostelecom; 9.Galina V. Rysakova, Director of Department of Organizational Development and Human Resources of Rostelecom; 10.Olga N. Rumyantseva, Director of Sales and Customer Service Department of Rostelecom; 11.Dmitry V. Sigalov, Director of Legal Affairs Department of Rostelecom; and 12.Vladimir V. Terekhov, First Deputy General Director of Rostelecom. On January 14, 2008, Konstantin Yu. Solodukhin became our General Director and Chairman of the Management Board. On March 21, 2008, Dmitry M. Gurevich ceased to be a member of our Management Board. On May 22, 2008, Sergei L. Akopov ceased to be a member of our Management Board and Igor Yu. Nikodimov became a member of our Management Board. Changes in Auditors On June 9, 2008, our Annual General Shareholders' Meeting approved ZAO KPMG as our auditor for the year ending December 31, 2008. Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Listing Details The table below shows the high and low prices and the daily average trading volumes in U.S. dollars of our ordinary shares on the RTS for the periods set forth. Period Highest price Lowest price Average volume 2003 Annual 2.25 1.12 735,135 2004 Annual 2.66 1.66 671,606 2005 Annual 3.28 1.70 1,002,105 2006 Annual 7.68 2.25 693,068 2007 Annual 12.20 7.15 375,180 2006 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 3.78 4.75 5.15 7.68 2.25 2.93 4.58 4.90 1,492,083 676,045 165,573 533,675 2007 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 December 8.80 9.90 10.52 12.20 12.20 7.15 8.45 9.24 9.60 10.73 378,773 322,624 256,249 543,681 295,731 2008 Quarter 1 January February March April May June (through June 24, 2008) 12.40 12.40 11.75 12.20 12.44 11.75 12.40 10.40 10.40 11.00 11.10 10.10 11.25 11.10 310,368 508,208 207,650 244,922 259,343 134,506 140,683 118 The table below shows the high and low prices and the daily average trading volumes in U.S. dollars of our ordinary shares on the MICEX for the periods set forth. Period Highest price Lowest price Average volume 2003 Annual 2.25 1.11 11,930,976 2004 Annual 2.67 1.65 17,495,025 2005 Annual 2.67 1.69 24,713,254 2006 Annual 7.80 2.22 34,481,511 2007 Annual 12.25 7.01 17,978,091 2006 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 3.85 4.85 5.25 7.80 2.22 2.89 4.33 4.73 67,869,061 43,246,573 14,535,709 16,512,026 2007 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 December 8.85 10.06 10.55 12.25 12.25 7.01 8.34 9.22 9.38 10.65 15,566,262 15,799,665 21,011,441 19,155,728 21,328,584 2008 Quarter 1 January February March April May June (through June 24, 2008) 12.49 12.49 11.81 12.28 12.49 12.10 12.49 10.15 10.15 10.76 11.09 10.74 11.28 11.07 20,843,371 21,993,713 19,851,970 20,856,982 24,712,225 26,295,305 26,102,389 The table below shows the high and low prices and the daily average trading volumes in U.S. dollars of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange for the periods set forth. Period Highest price Lowest price Average volume 2003 Annual 13.20 6.59 618,650 2004 Annual 15.92 9.96 1,204,358 2005 Annual 16.16 10.10 1,362,634 2006 Annual 46.45 13.37 2,800,105 2007 Annual 72.75 42.55 4,129,817 2006 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 22.70 29.24 31.92 46.45 13.37 17.52 27.42 29.20 2,705,860 3,309,245 2,203,481 2,981,834 2007 Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 December 53.40 59.99 63.52 72.75 72.75 42.55 50.16 55.50 55.84 63.98 4,734,292 2,961,306 3,274,383 5,527,782 7,184,192 2008 Quarter 1 January February March April May June (through June 24, 2008) 74.08 74.08 70.29 73.37 74.99 70.98 73.34 63.52 63.52 65.25 67.01 68.80 66.00 64.82 7,312,031 7,979,343 6,549,177 7,344,021 5,891,002 4,753,469 10,333,627 119 B. Plan of Distribution Not applicable. C. Markets In Russia, our ordinary and preferred shares are listed on the RTS and the MICEX. ADSs, each representing six of our ordinary shares, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and are also traded on the London Stock Exchange and the Deutsche Bourse. D. Selling Shareholders Not applicable. E. Dilution Not applicable. F. Expenses of the Issue Not applicable. Item 10. Additional Information A. Share Capital Not applicable. B. Description of Charter Capital and Certain Requirements of Russian Legislation We describe below material provisions of our charter in effect on the date of this document and certain requirements of Russian legislation. In addition to this description, we urge you to review our charter to learn its complete terms. History and Purpose We were registered with the Moscow Registration Chamber on September 23, 1993 under registration number 021.833. In 2002, the Russian system for the registration of legal entities was significantly changed. Federal Law No. 129-FZ on the State Registration of Legal Entities and Individual Entrepreneurs dated August 8, 2001, or the Registration Law, which entered into force on July 1, 2002, required legal entities to be registered by a registration agency authorized by the government of Russia and information concerning the establishment, reorganization and liquidation of legal entities to be entered in the state register. The Registration Law also required legal entities established prior to July 1, 2002 to furnish, by the end of 2002, information specified in the Registration Law. Under Resolution No. 319 dated May 17, 2002, the government of Russia determined that the Ministry of Taxes and Collections would be the state authority to register legal entities. In compliance with the Registration Law, on September 9, 2002, we obtained a Ministry of Taxes and Collections Certificate Series 77 No. 004891969 on registration in the Unified State Register of Legal Entities, and we were allocated state registration number 1027700198767. Article 3.1 of our charter provides that our main purpose is to earn a profit. 120 General Matters Pursuant to our charter, we have the right to issue ordinary shares, preferred shares and other securities provided for by the legislation of the Russian Federation with respect to securities. Our charter capital currently equals RUR 2,428,819.4725 and consists of 728,696,320 fully paid, issued and outstanding ordinary shares and 242,831,469 preferred shares, with all shares having an equal nominal value of 0.0025 rubles. We are also authorized to issue 905,330,221 ordinary shares and 531 preferred shares, all such shares having nominal value of 0.0025 rubles. Under Russian legislation, charter capital refers to the aggregate nominal value of the issued and outstanding shares. None of our capital stock is under option or agreed conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option. As of the date of this annual report, we had no treasury shares. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires us to dispose of any of our shares that we acquire within one year of our acquisition or, failing that, reduce our charter capital. According to our charter, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue additional ordinary shares up to the total of authorized but unissued shares without obtaining further shareholder approval. As of the date of this annual report, we had not issued any additional shares. The amount of our charter capital significantly exceeds the minimum requirement established by the laws of the Russian Federation for open joint stock companies. In the event that we adopt a decision to decrease our charter capital in accordance with the Joint Stock Companies Law, our General Director must notify all of our creditors of such decrease within 30 days following the decision of the shareholders to decrease the charter capital. The state registration of the relevant amendments to our charter, which would be necessary for decreasing the charter capital, would be carried out only upon confirmation that such notification to the creditors has been made. Rights Attaching to Our Shares Shares of each category (ordinary shares and preferred shares) grant equal rights to the holders of shares of the respective category. As required by the Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter, all of our ordinary shares have the same nominal value and grant to their holders identical rights. Such rights generally distinguish them from the holders of preferred shares. Holders of our ordinary shares, except for treasury shares, have the right to: •participate in shareholders' meetings and vote on all issues of the shareholders' competence, save for the limitations on voting on certain matters provided by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •freely transfer the shares without the consent of other shareholders; •receive dividends; •transfer voting rights to its representative on the basis of a power of attorney; •participate in the election and dismissal of members of the Board of Directors and the Audit Commission; •if holding, alone or with other holders, 2% or more of the voting shares, within 30 days after the end of our fiscal year, make proposals for the agenda of the annual shareholders' meeting and nominate candidates to the Board of Directors and the Audit Commission; •if holding, alone or with other holders, 10% or more of the voting shares, demand from the Board of Directors the calling of an extraordinary shareholders' meeting or an unscheduled audit by the Audit Commission or an independent auditor; 121 •demand, under the following circumstances, repurchase by us of all or some of the shares owned by us, as long as such holder voted against or did not participate in the voting on the decision approving the following: •reorganization; •conclusion of a major transaction, as defined under Russian law; and •amendment of our charter that restricts the holder's rights; •upon liquidation, receive a proportionate amount of our property after our obligations to our creditors are fulfilled; •have access to certain of our documents, receive copies for a reasonable fee and, if holding alone or with other holders, 25% or more of the voting stock, have free access to accounting documents and minutes of the management board meetings; and •exercise other rights of a shareholder provided by our charter, Russian legislation and decisions of shareholders' meetings approved in accordance with its competence. Our preferred shares generally confer on their holders the following principal rights: •to receive a fixed dividend, except in certain cases envisaged by the Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter; and •to enjoy preference over ordinary shares in any distribution of profits and any proceeds from our liquidation. While there are no limits on admission of shareholders to shareholders' meetings, in accordance with our charter, only holders of our ordinary shares have the right to vote on any matter within the competence of the meeting. Our preferred shares confer no voting rights unless our charter and the Joint Stock Companies Law provide otherwise. Holders of preferred shares are entitled to vote on: •the adoption of amendments to the charter that would adversely affect their rights as preferred shareholders, including the issuance of any other type of preferred shares that would enjoy a priority in right of payment of dividend and/or a preference in respect of liquidation value over the preferred shares; or •our reorganization or liquidation. They may also vote at shareholders' meetings following the shareholders' meeting at which a decision was adopted not to pay dividends on preferred shares or to pay them only in part. Such right to vote continues until the dividends to which the holders of preferred shares are entitled are paid in full. The holders of both of our ordinary shares and preferred shares may: •freely transfer the shares without the consent of other shareholders; •participate in the distribution of our net profits (as reported under RAS) in the form of dividends and in the distribution of our assets in the event of liquidation; •enjoy the right of first refusal in respect of additional shares being placed by us through an open subscription and, in certain circumstances, by way of a closed subscription; and •have access to certain company documents, receive copies for a reasonable fee and, if holding alone or with other holders, 25% or more of the voting stock, have access to accounting documents and minutes of the management board meetings. Our shareholders may also exercise other rights provided by Russian law and our charter. 122 Preemptive Rights Our charter provides existing shareholders with a preemptive right to purchase shares or securities convertible into shares during an open subscription in an amount proportionate to their existing shareholdings. In addition, the Joint Stock Companies Law provides shareholders with a preemptive right to purchase shares or securities convertible into shares during a closed subscription if the shareholders voted against or did not participate in the voting on the decision approving such subscription. The preemptive right does not apply to a closed subscription to existing shareholders provided that such shareholders may acquire a whole number of shares or securities convertible into shares being placed in an amount proportionate to their existing holdings. We must provide shareholders with written notice of the proposed sale of shares at least 45 days prior to the offering, during which time shareholders may exercise their preemptive rights. Dividends The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter set forth the procedure for determining the dividends that we distribute to our shareholders. Dividends are recommended to a shareholders' meeting by the Board of Directors, and approved by the shareholders' meeting by a majority vote. A decision on annual dividends must be taken at the annual general shareholders' meeting. Our charter does not allow for the payment of quarterly dividends. The dividend approved at the shareholders' meeting may not be more than the amount recommended by the Board of Directors. Dividends are distributed to holders of our shares as of the record date for the shareholders' meeting approving the dividends. See "—General Shareholders' Meeting—Notice and Participation" below. Dividends payable on preferred shares are fixed by the charter in the amount of 10% of our net profits, calculated in accordance with RAS, divided by the total number of preferred shares. Furthermore, in the event the amount of dividends paid per common share exceeds dividends payable per preferred share, our shareholders should increase the amount of dividends per preferred share up to the amount of dividends per common share. Dividends are not paid on treasury shares. Dividends are paid no later than October 31 of the financial year when the annual shareholders' meeting approved them. Moreover, dividends on preferred shares are payable within 60 days of such annual shareholders' meeting. Distributions to Shareholders on Liquidation Our charter does not provide for any distribution of our profits other than in the form of dividends. However, the charter provides that each of our shareholders may receive a pro-rata portion of the assets upon our liquidation after the settlement of all of our outstanding debts (including payment of all outstanding taxes and salaries). In the event that our assets are insufficient to pay the accrued but unpaid dividends and the liquidation value of the preferred shares to all holders thereof, the property will be distributed among holders of preferred shares in proportion to the number of shares held by them. Under Russian legislation, liquidation of a company results in its termination without the transfer of rights and obligations to other persons as legal successors. The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter allow us to be liquidated: •by a three-quarters majority vote of a shareholders' meeting; or •by a court order. Following a decision to liquidate us, the right to manage our affairs would pass to a liquidation commission which, in the case of voluntary liquidation, is appointed by a shareholders' meeting and, in an involuntary liquidation, is appointed by the court. Creditors may file claims within a period to be 123 determined by the liquidation commission, but such period must not be less than two months from the date of publication of notice of liquidation by the liquidation commission. The Civil Code of the Russian Federation, or the Civil Code, gives creditors the following order of priority during liquidation: •individuals owed compensation for injuries or deaths; •employees; •federal and local governmental entities claiming taxes and similar payments to the budgets and non-budgetary funds; and •other creditors in accordance with Russian legislation. Claims of creditors in connection with obligations secured by a pledge of the company's property ("secured claims") are satisfied out of the proceeds of sale of the pledged property prior to claims of any other creditors except for creditors of the first and second priorities described above, provided that claims of such creditors arose before the pledge agreements in respect of the company's property were made. To the extent that the proceeds of sale of the pledged property are not sufficient to satisfy secured claims, the latter are satisfied simultaneously with claims of the fourth priority creditors as described above. The Federal Law on Insolvency (Bankruptcy), however, provides for a different order of priority for creditors' claims in the event of bankruptcy. The remaining assets of a company are distributed among shareholders in the following order of priority: •payments to repurchase shares from shareholders having the right to demand repurchase; •payments of declared but unpaid dividends on preferred shares and the liquidation value of the preferred shares, if any; and •payments to holders of common and preferred shares on a pro rata basis. Liability of Shareholders The Civil Code and the Joint Stock Companies Law generally provide that shareholders in a Russian joint stock company are not liable for the obligations of a joint stock company and bear only the risk of loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one company is capable of determining decisions made by another company. The company capable of determining such decisions is called an "effective parent." The company whose decisions are capable of being so determined is called an "effective subsidiary." The effective parent bears joint and several responsibility for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out these decisions if: •this decision-making capability is provided for in the charter of the effective subsidiary or in a contract between such persons; and •the effective parent gives binding instructions to the effective subsidiary. Thus, a shareholder of an effective parent is not itself liable for the debts of the effective parent's effective subsidiary, unless that shareholder is itself an effective parent of the effective parent. Accordingly, a shareholder will not be personally liable for our debts or those of our effective subsidiaries unless such shareholder controls our business and the conditions set forth above are met. In addition, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary's debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt resulting from the action or inaction of an effective parent. This is the case no matter how the effective parent's capability to determine decisions of the 124 effective subsidiary arises, such as through ownership of voting securities or by contract. In these instances, other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary's losses from the effective parent that caused the effective subsidiary to take any action or fail to take any action knowing that such action or failure to take action would result in losses. Share Capital Increase We may increase our charter capital by: •issuing new shares, or •increasing the nominal value of previously issued shares. A decision on any issuance of shares or securities convertible into shares by closed subscription, or an issuance by open subscription of ordinary shares or securities convertible into ordinary shares constituting 25% or more of the number of issued ordinary shares, requires a three-quarters majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Otherwise, a decision to increase the charter capital by increasing the nominal value of issued shares requires a majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. In addition, the issuance of shares above the number of authorized and non-issued shares provided in our charter necessitates a charter amendment, which requires a three-quarters majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires that the value of newly issued shares be determined by the board of directors based on their market value but shall not be less than their nominal value, except in limited circumstances where (i) existing shareholders exercise a preemptive right to purchase shares at not less than 90% of the price paid by third parties, or (ii) fees of up to 10% are paid to intermediaries, in which case the fees paid may be deducted from the price. The price may not be set at less than the nominal value of the shares. The board of directors and an independent appraiser value any in-kind contributions for new shares. Russian securities regulations set out detailed procedures for the issuance and registration of shares of a joint stock company. These procedures require: •prior registration of a share issuance with the FSFM; •public disclosure of information relating to the share issuance; and •following the placement of the shares, registration and public disclosure of the results of the placement of shares. Capital Decrease; Share Buy-Backs The Joint Stock Companies Law does not allow a company to reduce its charter capital below the minimum charter capital required by law, which is RUR 100,000 for an open joint stock company. Our charter requires that any decision to reduce our charter capital, whether through the repurchase and cancellation of shares or a reduction in the nominal value of the shares, be made by a majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Additionally, within 30 days of a decision to reduce our charter capital, we must issue a written notice to our creditors and publish this decision. Our creditors would then have the right to demand, within 30 days of such notice or publication, repayment of all amounts due to them, as well as compensation for damages. The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter allow our shareholders or our Board of Directors to authorize the repurchase of up to 10% of our shares in exchange for cash. The shares repurchased pursuant to a board decision must be resold at the market price within one year of their repurchase or, failing that, the shareholders must decide to cancel such shares and decrease the charter capital. The 125 repurchased shares do not bear voting rights. The shares repurchased pursuant to a decision of our shareholders' meeting to decrease the overall number of shares, are cancelled at their redemption. The Joint Stock Companies Law allows us to repurchase our shares only if, at the time of repurchase: •our charter capital is paid in full; •we are not and would not become insolvent as a result of the repurchase; •the value of our net assets is not less (and would not become less, as a result of the proposed repurchase) than the sum of our charter capital, the reserve fund and the difference between the liquidation value and par value of our issued and outstanding preferred shares; and •we have repurchased all shares from shareholders having the right to demand repurchase of their shares in accordance with Russian law, as described immediately below. The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter provide that our shareholders may demand repurchase of all or some of their shares so long as the shareholder demanding repurchase voted against or did not participate in the voting on the decision approving any of the following actions: •reorganization; •conclusion of a major transaction, as defined under Russian law; or •amendment of the charter or approval of a restated version of our charter in a manner which restricts shareholders' rights. We may spend up to 10% of our net assets calculated under RAS on the date of the adoption of the decision which gives rise to the shareholders' right demand a share redemption. If the value of shares in respect of which shareholders have exercised their right to demand repurchase exceeds 10% of the net assets, we will repurchase shares from each such shareholder on a pro-rata basis. Registration and Transfer of Shares Russian legislation requires that a joint stock company maintain a register of its shareholders. Ownership of our registered shares is evidenced solely by entries made in such register. Any of our shareholders may obtain an extract from the register certifying the number of shares that such shareholder holds. Since December 2005, United Registration Company, which is the successor of Registrar-Svyaz, has maintained our share register. The purchase, sale or other transfer of shares is accomplished through registration of the transfer in the share register, or the registration of the transfer with a depositary if shares are held by a depositary. The registrar or depositary may not require any documents in addition to those required by Russian legislation in order to transfer shares in the register. Refusal to register the shares in the name of the transferee or, upon request of the beneficial holder, in the name of a nominee holder, is not allowed except in certain instances provided for by Russian legislation, and may be challenged in court. Reserve Fund Russian legislation requires that each joint stock company establish a reserve fund to be used only to cover the company's losses, redeem the company's bonds and repurchase the company's shares in cases when other funds are not available. Our charter provides for a reserve fund in the amount of 15% of our charter capital, funded through mandatory annual transfers of at least 5% of our statutory net profits until the reserve fund has reached the required 15%. 126 Disclosure of Information Pursuant to Russian securities legislation, we are required to make the following public disclosures and filings periodically: •filing quarterly reports with the FSFM containing information about us, our shareholders and depositary, the structure of our management bodies, the members of the Board of Directors, our branches and representative offices, our shares, bank accounts and auditors, important developments during the reporting quarter and other information about our financial and business activity and disclosing the same on our website on the same basis; •filing with the FSFM and publishing any information concerning material facts and changes in our financial and business activity, including our reorganization, certain changes in the amount of assets, decisions on share issuances, certain changes in ownership and shareholding as well as shareholder resolutions; •disclosing information on various stages of share placement, issuance and registration through publication of certain data as required by the securities regulations; •disclosing our charter and internal corporate governance documents on our website; •disclosing our annual report and annual financial statements prepared in accordance with RAS; •filing with the FSFM on a quarterly basis a list of our affiliated persons and disclosing the same on our website, on the same basis; and •other information as required by applicable Russian securities legislation. General Shareholders' Meeting Procedure The powers of a shareholders' meeting are set forth in the Joint Stock Companies Law and in our charter. We hold an annual shareholders' meeting and extraordinary shareholders' meetings pursuant to the charter and our Regulations on General Shareholders' Meetings. A shareholders' meeting may not decide issues that are not included in the list of its powers by the Joint Stock Companies Law. Among issues that the shareholders have the exclusive power to decide are: •charter amendments; •reorganization or liquidation; •election and removal of members of the Board of Directors; •determination of the number, nominal value and class/type of authorized shares and the rights granted by such shares; •changes in our charter capital; •appointment and removal of the external auditor and of the members of the Audit Commission; •approval of certain interested party transactions and major transactions; •distribution of profits and losses, including approval of dividends; •redemption by us of issued shares in cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •approval of certain internal documents and corporate records; •participation in commercial or industrial groups or other associations of commercial entities; and •other issues, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law. 127 Voting at a shareholders' meeting is generally based on the principle of one vote per common share, with the exception of the election of the Board of Directors, which is done through cumulative voting. Decisions are generally passed by a majority vote of the voting shares present at a shareholders' meeting. However, Russian law and our charter require a three-quarters majority vote of the voting shares present at a shareholders' meeting to approve, among other things, the following: •charter amendments; •reorganization or liquidation; •major transactions involving assets in excess of 50% of the balance sheet value of our assets; •determination of the number, nominal value and type of authorized shares and the rights granted by such shares; •decrease of the charter capital through the reduction in the nominal value of our shares; •repurchase by us of our issued shares; •any issuance of shares or securities convertible into ordinary shares by closed subscription; or •issuance by open subscription of ordinary shares or securities convertible into ordinary shares, in each case, constituting 25% or more of the number of issued ordinary shares. The quorum requirement for our shareholders' meeting is met if shareholders (or their representatives) accounting for more than 50% of the issued voting shares are present. If the 50% quorum requirement is not met, another shareholders' meeting with the same agenda may (and, in case of an annual shareholders' meeting, must) be scheduled and the quorum requirement is satisfied if shareholders (or their representatives) accounting for at least 30% of the issued voting shares are present at that meeting. The annual shareholders' meeting must be convened by the Board of Directors between May 1 and June 30 of each year, and the agenda must include the following items: •election of the members of the Board of Directors; •approval of the annual report and the annual financial statements, including the balance sheet and profit and loss statement; •approval of distribution of profits, including approval of annual dividends, and losses, if any; •appointment of an independent auditor; and •appointment of the members of the Audit Commission. A shareholder or group of shareholders owning in the aggregate at least 2% of the issued voting shares may introduce proposals for the agenda of the annual shareholders' meeting and may nominate candidates for the Board of Directors and the Audit Commission. According to our charter, any agenda proposals or nominations must be provided to us no later than 60 calendar days after the preceding financial year end. Extraordinary shareholders' meetings may be called by the Board of Directors on its own initiative, or at the request of the Audit Commission, the independent auditor or a shareholder or group of shareholders owning in the aggregate at least 10% of the issued voting shares as of the date of the request. Such requests shall be made in the manner and within time periods provided for in the Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meetings. Such extraordinary meeting should be held not later than 40 days following the day when the request was made. However, if the proposed agenda includes the election of our Board of Directors, such extraordinary shareholders' meeting should be held within 70 days following the day on which the request was made. 128 A general meeting of shareholders may be held in a form of a meeting or by absentee ballot. The form of a meeting contemplates the adoption of resolutions by the general meeting of shareholders through the attendance of the shareholders or their authorized representatives for the purpose of discussing and voting on issues of the agenda, provided that if the ballot is mailed to shareholders for participation at a meeting convened in such form, the shareholders may complete and mail the ballot back to the company without personally attending the meeting. A general meeting of the shareholders by absentee ballot envisages collecting shareholders' opinions on issues on the agenda by means of a written poll. The following issues cannot be decided by a shareholders' meeting by absentee ballot: •election of the members of the Board of Directors; •election of the members of Audit Commission; •approval of our independent auditor; and •approval of the annual report, the annual financial statements, including balance sheet, profit and loss statement and any distribution of profits, including approval of annual dividends, and losses, if any. Notice and Participation All shareholders entitled to participate in a general shareholders' meeting must be notified of the meeting, whether the meeting is to be held in the form of a meeting or by absentee ballot, no less than 30 days prior to the date of the meeting, and such notification shall specify the agenda for the meeting. However, if it is an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect the Board of Directors, shareholders must be notified at least 70 days prior to the date of the meeting. Only those items that were set out in the agenda to shareholders may be voted upon at a general shareholders' meeting. The list of shareholders entitled to participate in a general shareholders' meeting is to be compiled on the basis of data in the shareholders register on the date established by the Board of Directors, which date may neither be earlier than the date of adoption of the board resolution to hold a general shareholders' meeting nor more than 50 days before the date of the meeting (or, in the case of an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect the Board of Directors, not less than 35 days and not more than 65 days before the date of the meeting). Where the proposed agenda includes issues that are to be voted by both holders of ordinary and preferred shares, the list of shareholders entitled to take part in such general shareholders' meeting should be prepared as of the date at least 45 days prior to the date of the shareholders' meeting. Under our charter, shareholders entitled to participate in shareholders' meetings include (i) holders of our fully paid ordinary shares and (ii) holders of our fully paid preferred shares (in the event there is a particular item in the meeting's agenda on which the preferred shares are entitled to vote or if holders of preferred shares became entitled to vote on all issues within the competence of the shareholders' meeting due to a decision not to pay dividends in whole or in part on preferred shares). The right to participate in a general meeting of shareholders may be exercised by a shareholder as follows: •by personally participating in the discussion of agenda items and voting thereon; •by sending an authorized representative to participate in the discussion of agenda items and to vote thereon; •by submitting a written ballot reflecting the shareholder's voting on the agenda items; or 129 •by delegating the right to submit such written ballot to an authorized representative. We are required to grant to our shareholders access to information, including our annual report, audited financial statements (balance sheet and profits and loss statement) and auditor's report, information on candidates to the Board of Directors, and any draft amendments or modifications to our charter, in advance of the shareholders' meeting. Shareholders may participate in a shareholders' meeting either in person or by proxy. Board of Directors The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter provides for the election of the entire Board of Directors at each annual general shareholders' meeting. The Board of Directors is elected through cumulative voting, as provided for in the Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meeting and the Regulations on the Board of Directors, or the Board Regulations. Under cumulative voting, each shareholder may cast an aggregate number of votes equal to the number of shares held by such shareholder multiplied by the number of persons on the Board of Directors, and the shareholder may give all such votes to one candidate or spread them between two or more candidates. Before the expiration of their term, the directors may be removed as a group at any time without cause by a majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. While there is not any age limit set for the retirement of directors, each member of the Board of Directors may at any time resign voluntarily with a written notice to all other members of the Board of Directors and to us. In such event, the authority of the remaining members of our Board of Directors will not terminate. However, in the event that the membership of the Board of Directors falls below the half of its initial membership, the Board of Directors must adopt a decision to convene an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect a new Board of Directors. Our charter provides that Management Board members may not constitute more than one quarter of the Board of Directors and that the General Director may not also be the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is elected by a simple majority of the members of the Board of Directors and may be re-elected at any time by members of the Board of Directors. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires at least a five-member Board of Directors for all joint stock companies, at least a seven-member Board of Directors for a joint stock company with more than 1,000 holders of voting shares, and at least a nine-member Board of Directors for a joint stock company with more than 10,000 holders of voting shares. Only natural persons (as opposed to legal entities) are entitled to sit on the Board. Members of the Board of Directors are not required to be our shareholders. The actual number of directors is determined by our charter or a decision of the shareholders' meeting. Our charter provides that the Board of Directors shall consist of eleven members. The Board of Directors may be convened by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on his/her own initiative or by request of any member of the Board of Directors, the Audit Commission, our external auditor, the General Director or any shareholder or group of shareholders owning at least 2% of our voting shares. A quorum of the Board of Directors is reached if more than half of the elected members are present at the meeting. Each member of the Board of Directors has one vote which may not be assigned to another member or any other person. The Joint Stock Companies Law generally prohibits the Board of Directors from acting on issues that fall within the exclusive competence of the general shareholders' meeting. Our Board of Directors has the power to perform our general management, and to decide, among others, the following issues: •determination of our business priorities, including approval of our budgets, strategies and development plans; 130 •convening annual and extraordinary shareholders' meetings, except in certain circumstances specified in the Joint Stock Companies Law; •approval of the agenda of a shareholders' meeting and determination of the record date for shareholders entitled to participate in a shareholders' meeting; •placement of our bonds and other securities in cases specified in the Joint Stock Companies Law; •determination of the price of our property and securities to be placed or repurchased, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •repurchase of our shares, bonds and other securities in certain cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •increasing the charter capital by issuing additional shares within the limits of the authorized charter capital as specified in our charter; •election and removal of the General Director and the members of the Management Board; •approval of material contract terms concluded with the General Director and the members of the Management Board; •recommendations on the amount of remuneration and compensation to be paid to members of the Audit Commission and approval of the terms of agreement with an independent auditor on audit services, including determination of the fees payable for the services of an independent auditor; •recommendations on the amount of the dividend on shares and the payment procedure thereof; •the use of the reserve fund and other funds; •approval of internal documents, except for those documents whose approval falls within the competence of the shareholders or executive bodies; •the creation and liquidation of branches and representative offices; •approval of major and interested party transactions in certain cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •appointment of the share registrar; •approval of decisions and prospectuses on share issuances and reports on the results of such share issuances; •creation of the committees of the Board of Directors; and •other issues, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter. Our charter generally requires a majority vote of the directors present for an action to pass, with the exception of actions for which Russian legislation requires a unanimous vote or a majority vote of the disinterested and independent directors, as described therein. A Board meeting is considered duly assembled and legally competent to act when half of the number of elected directors is present. Pursuant to our charter, any issues concerning the legal status of our Board of Directors that are not covered by the charter shall be governed by the Board Regulations adopted by the shareholders' meeting by a simple majority of votes of shareholders participating in the meeting. 131 Interested Party Transactions Under the Joint Stock Companies Law, certain transactions defined as "interested party transactions" require approval by disinterested directors or shareholders of the company. "Interested party transactions" include transactions involving a member of the Board of Directors or member of any executive body of the company (including the company's chief executive officer and/or the company's managing organization), any person that owns, together with any affiliates, at least 20% of a company's issued voting stock or any person who is able to direct the actions of the company, if that person and/or that person's spouse, parents, children, adoptive parents or children, brothers or sisters or affiliates, is/are: •a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary; •the owner of at least 20% of the issued voting shares of a legal entity that is a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary; or •a member of the Board of Directors or a member of any management body of a company that is a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary, or a member of the Board of Directors or of any management body of a management organization of such a company. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires that an interested party transaction by a company with more than 1,000 shareholders be approved by a majority vote of the independent directors of the company who are not interested in the transaction. For purposes of this rule, an "independent director" is a person who is not, and within the year preceding the decision to approve the transaction was not, the general director, a member of any executive body or an affiliate of the company, or a member of the Board of Directors or of any management body of the company's management organization. Additionally, such person's spouse, parents, children, adoptive parents or children, brothers or sisters may not occupy positions in the executive bodies of the company or its management organization. For companies with 1,000 or fewer shareholders, an interested party transaction must be approved by a majority vote of the directors who are not interested in the transaction if the number of these directors is sufficient to constitute a quorum. Approval by a majority of shareholders who are not interested in the transaction is required if: •the value of such transaction or a number of interrelated transactions is 2% or more of the balance sheet value of the company's assets determined under RAS; •the transaction or a number of interrelated transactions involves the issuance, by subscription, of voting shares or securities convertible into voting shares, or secondary market sale of such securities, in an amount exceeding 2% of the company's issued voting stock; •the number of directors who are not interested in the transaction is not sufficient to constitute a quorum; or •all the members of the Board of Directors of the company are interested parties, or none of them is an independent director. Approval of an interested party transaction may not be required until the next annual shareholders' meeting if such transaction is substantially similar to transactions concluded by the company and the interested party in the ordinary course of business before such party became an interested party with respect to the transaction. 132 The approval of interested party transactions is not required in the following instances: •the company has only one shareholder that simultaneously performs the functions of the executive body of the company; •all shareholders of the company are deemed interested in such transactions; •the transactions arise from the shareholders executing their preemptive rights to purchase newly issued shares of the company; •the transactions arise from the repurchase, whether mandatory or not, by the company of its issued shares; •the company merges with another company, and the latter owns more than three-fourths of the voting capital stock of the company; or •the company enters into a transaction that is mandatory for the company under Russian law and must be concluded on the basis of fixed prices and tariffs adopted by a competent governmental body. If all members of the Board of Directors are deemed to be interested in the transaction and/or are not independent directors, the transaction is required to be approved by the shareholders' meeting by a simple majority vote of shareholders. As we currently have over 1,000 shareholders holding voting shares in us, decisions on the approval of interested party transactions are typically adopted by our Board of Directors by a majority of votes of disinterested (i.e., who do not have an interest in the transaction) independent directors. Major Transactions The Joint Stock Companies Law defines a "major transaction" as a transaction, or a series of transactions, involving the acquisition or disposal, or the possibility of disposal (whether directly or indirectly) of property having the value of 25% or more of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company as determined under RAS, with the exception of transactions conducted in the ordinary course of business or transactions involving the placement of ordinary shares, or securities convertible into ordinary shares. Major transactions involving assets ranging from 25% to 50% of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company require unanimous approval by all members of the Board of Directors or, failing to receive such approval, a simple majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Major transactions involving assets in excess of 50% of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company require a three-quarters' majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Change in Control Anti-takeover Protection Russian legislation requires the following: •A person intending to acquire 30% or more of an open joint stock company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares (including, for such purposes, shares already owned by such person and its affiliates), will be entitled to make a public tender offer to other holders of such shares or securities convertible into such shares. •A person that has acquired 30% or more of the totality of an open joint-stock company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares (including, for such purposes, shares already owned by such person and its affiliates, but excluding shares that were acquired pursuant to previous voluntary or mandatory offers) will generally be required to make, within 35 days of acquiring such shares, a public tender offer for other shares of the same class and for securities 133 convertible into such shares, at the price which is not less than the price determined based on a weighted market price of the shares for the previous six months, or on a price not less than the market price which must be determined by an independent appraiser if the shares have no or insufficient trading history. From the moment of acquisition of 30% or more of the shares until the moment of sending of an offer to the security holders, the person making an offer and its affiliates will be able to register for quorum and vote only 30% of the shares of the company (regardless of the size of their actual holdings). These rules are also applied (or reapplied) to acquisitions resulting in a person or a group of persons owning more than 50% and 75% of a company's outstanding shares. •A person that as a result of such an offer becomes (individually or with its affiliates) the owner of more than 95% of the company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares, must buy out the remaining shares of the company as well as other securities convertible into such shares upon request of the holders of such shares or other securities, and may require such holders to sell such shares and other securities, at a price based on the prices of the preceding acquisition by the offeror. •An offer of the kind described in either of the preceding three paragraphs must be accompanied by a bank guarantee of payment. If the company is publicly traded, prior notice of the offer must be filed with the FSFM; otherwise, notice must be filed with the FSFM no later than the date of the offer. The FSFM may order amendments to the terms of the offer (including price) in order to bring them into compliance with the rules. •Once such an offer has been made, competing offers for the same securities can be made by third parties and, in certain circumstances, acceptance of the initial offer may be withdrawn by the security holders who choose to accept such competing offer. From the making of such an offer until 20 days after its expiry (which period may in certain cases exceed 100 days) the company's shareholders meeting will have the sole power to make decisions on charter capital increase, issuance of securities, approval of certain major transactions, and on certain other significant matters. The above rules may be supplemented through rulemaking by the FSFM, which may result in a wider, narrower or more specific interpretation of these rules by the government and judicial authorities, as well as by market participants. Approval of the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Pursuant to the Federal Law on Competition, acquisitions of voting stock capital of a joint stock company involving (1) companies with a combined value of assets or annual revenues exceeding a certain threshold under RAS, or (2) companies registered as having more than a 35% share of a certain commodity market, and which would result in a shareholder (or a group of affiliated shareholders) holding more than 25%, 50% or 75% of the voting capital stock of such company, or in a transfer between such companies of assets or rights to assets, the value of which exceeds a certain amount, are subject to approval in advance by the FAS. Disclosure of Ownership Under Russian law, a holder of our ordinary shares will be required to publicly disclose an acquisition of 5% or more of the issued ordinary shares of the company, as well any change in the amount of ordinary shares held by such holder, if, as a result of such change, the percentage of ordinary shares held by the holder becomes greater or lesser than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 50% or 75% of the issued ordinary shares of the company. 134 Notification of Foreign Ownership Foreign persons registered as individual entrepreneurs in Russia and foreign companies, regardless of whether they are registered with the Russian tax authorities that acquire shares in a Russian joint stock company may need to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month following such acquisition. However, the procedure for notifying the Russian tax authorities by foreign companies that are not registered with the Russian tax authorities at the time of their share acquisitions is unclear. C. Material Contracts The following summarizes our material contracts, other than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, for the two years prior to the date of filing this annual report. Since the following is only a summary, you are urged to review the material contracts filed as exhibits to this annual report (or incorporated by reference) to learn their complete terms. Restructuring of Our Obligations to Vnesheconombank We entered into a JPY 11,601 million (RUR 3,089 million) credit agreement in August 1994 with the government of the Russian Federation and Vnesheconombank. The principal of the loan was repayable in equal annual installments of JPY 2,105 million, with the final payment due not later than October 2001. The interest rate was 3% per annum. Our payment obligations under this agreement were restructured in 2003 pursuant to an agency agreement entered into by us and Alfa Bank. Under this agreement, Alfa Bank repaid the debt obligation under the original credit agreement, and we issued promissory notes to Alfa Bank for approximately $98.6 million at an interest rate of 5.94% per annum payable in six equal semi-annual installments, to be redeemed within 36 months of the date of the agency agreement. On June 30, 2006, we redeemed all outstanding notes to Alfa Bank. Agreements regarding the new system of interaction between Russian operators and subscribers Interconnection Agreements with IRCs Pursuant to the Law on Communications and the Interconnection Rules, we have entered into telecommunications network interconnection agreements with all operators interconnected to our network. These agreements govern the legal relationships between the parties, define their respective rights and obligations, and sets forth the cost of services and the manner in which the services are to be provided. Because we are considered an operator occupying a "significant position" in the market, the interconnection agreements must meet certain requirements established by law, including the obligation to: (i) establish equal interconnection terms for operators providing similar services; (ii) publish the interconnection terms, including technical, economic and informational provisions; and (iii) operate using the tariffs established by the FST. Each interconnection agreement we enter into with an IRC requires the IRC to provide traffic transit services (i.e., traffic origination and termination services) via its own regional network and to provide us with certain information with respect to end users of our DLD and ILD services. In turn, we are required to provide the IRC with interconnection transit services for traffic from mobile network operators transmitting traffic via the IRC's telecommunications network. Tariffs for the transmission of mobile operator traffic is not regulated and, therefore, the price for these services is set by us. Our obligations under an interconnection agreement include: (i) providing interconnection services; (ii) paying for the provision of subscriber information; (iii) accounting, billing and payment for traffic transit services; and (iv) ensuring quality of service. In addition, we are required to provide traffic transit services from mobile cellular network operators transmitting traffic via the IRC's network. 135 The IRC's obligations under the contract are to: (i) provide traffic transit services; (ii) pay for interconnection services; and (iii) supply numbering information for the network for which our DLD and ILD services are provided. Traffic transit services differ according to the destination and place of transmission. When DLD and ILD services are provided to end users of an operator interconnected to an IRC's network, the IRC provides us with call termination and origination services to or from the interconnected operator's network. When DLD and ILD telephone services are provided to an IRC's end users, IRCs provide us with call termination and origination services to or from the IRC`s network. In this case, a compensation surcharge established by the regulatory authority is added to the cost of the call origination. Settlements are conducted on the basis of information prepared by the parties in accordance with the terms of the agreement. We provide information on the volumes of interconnection and traffic transit services. The IRC provides information on the numbering capacities of its own network and the networks of interconnected operators, and updated information on network subscribers. The parties each prepare statements of services rendered, which are used to determine payment obligations. Each interconnection agreement sets out a procedure for resolving disputes. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the option to renew by mutual agreement of the parties. The agreements may also be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable law. The full texts of the interconnection agreements entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. Service Provision Agreements with IRCs Prior to 2006, we were not required to bill and collect payments from end users for long-distance services or to provide other customer services directly to end users throughout Russia. As a result, we did not have sufficient staff and other resources to process, prepare and analyze source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills and collect payments by January 1, 2006 when the new regulations came into effect requiring us to provide DLD and ILD services directly to end users throughout Russia. We therefore entered into a series of agreements that allow us to utilize the resources of other companies possessing the necessary capabilities, including, among others, the IRCs of Svyazinvest. The Service Provision Agreements we entered into with IRCs are essentially agency agreements, under which the agent, for a fee, performs a number of functions associated with providing DLD and ILD services to end users. Relations of the parties under the Service Provision Agreements are subject to the Russian Civil Code, as well as regulations regarding the quality and procedures for providing DLD/ILD services to end users. Pursuant to the Service Provision Agreements, an IRC undertakes, for a fee, to perform the following services on our behalf: (i) collecting payments from subscribers; (ii) handling claims by users; (iii) handling information requests from end users; (iv) accepting and handling orders through the order-based and direct service system; (v) processing billing for communications services; (vi) preparing, printing, storing and delivering bills and payment documents to users; (vii) inform end users of our business name, as the operator providing DLD and ILD services; (viii) keep records of communications services provided to end users; and (ix) record payments and amounts owed for services rendered. In addition, under the Service Provision Agreements, IRCs provide us with reports in accordance with the format required by us. 136 Under these Service Provision Agreements, we are required to establish and notify the IRC and end users of communications services tariffs, pay for services rendered under the agreements and issue powers of attorney to the IRC's representatives authorizing them to perform legal and other actions. The settlements procedure under the Service Provision Agreements is as follows: on a monthly basis, the IRC transfers funds received from end users for services rendered, which are recorded in the agent's report and other report documents. The agent's fee is determined on the basis of the agent's report and paid to the IRC. To ensure correct settlements, rules are established for verifying compliance by the IRC with the terms of the agreement. Amounts owed by end users for services rendered are considered our receivables. The agreements also define requirements for handling claims by users and establish the manner in which the parties shall handle user claims and complaints in connection with the provision or non-provision of communications services. For the purpose of compliance with statutory accounting requirements, the IRC ensures the compilation of all necessary reporting and accounting documents, including sales ledgers and purchase ledgers. For compliance with VAT legislation, the agreements include a special section describing the interaction of the parties. The agreements provide penalties to protect the parties from bad faith performance of obligations by the other party. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the possibility of renewal if the parties agree, and may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable Russian legislation. The full texts of SPAs entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. Agency Agreements with IRCs We entered into individual Agency Agreements with the IRCs, pursuant to which the IRC undertakes, on our behalf and at our expense, to enter into written agreements for the provision of long-distance services with corporate users and Service Provision Agreements with operators interconnected to the IRC's network. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the possibility of renewal if the parties agree, and may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable Russian legislation. The full texts of the Agency Agreements entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. D. Exchange Controls The Federal Law on Currency Regulation and Currency Control effective since June 18, 2004 sets forth certain restrictions on settlements between residents of Russia with respect to transactions involving foreign securities (including ADRs), including requirements for settlement in Russian rubles. Repatriation of Export Proceeds Russian companies must repatriate 100% of their receivables from the export of goods and services (with a limited number of exceptions concerning, in particular, certain types of secured financing). 137 Restrictions on the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-residents The Federal Law on Foreign Investments in the Russian Federation of July 9, 1999, specifically guarantees foreign investors the right to repatriate their earnings from Russian investments. However, the evolving Russian exchange control regime may materially affect your ability to do so. Currently, ruble dividends on common shares may be converted into U.S. dollars without restriction. However, the ability to convert rubles into U.S. dollars is also subject to the availability of U.S. dollars in Russia's currency markets. Although there is an existing market within Russia for the conversion of rubles into U.S. dollars, including the interbank currency exchange and over-the-counter and currency futures markets, the further development of this market is uncertain. E. Taxation The following discussion describes the material United States federal and Russian income and withholding tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. holder of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a "United States person," as the term is defined in the United States Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and a resident of the United States for purposes of the Convention between the United States of America and the Russian Federation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (the "United States—Russia income tax treaty") and are fully eligible for benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty. Subject to certain provisions of the United States-Russia income tax treaty relating to limitations on benefits, you generally will be a resident of the United States for treaty purposes that is entitled to treaty benefits if you are: •liable, under the laws of the United States, to U.S. tax (other than taxes in respect only of income from sources in the United States or capital situated therein) by reason of your domicile, residence, citizenship, place of incorporation, or any other similar criterion (and, for income derived by a partnership, trust or estate, residence is determined in accordance with the residence of the person liable to tax with respect to such income); and •not also a resident of the Russian Federation for purposes of the United States-Russia income tax treaty. The benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty discussed in this document generally are not available to U.S. persons who hold ADSs or ordinary shares in connection with the conduct of a business in the Russian Federation through a permanent establishment as defined in the United States-Russia income tax treaty. Subject to certain exceptions, a U.S. person's permanent establishment under the United States-Russia income tax treaty is a fixed place of business through which such person carries on business activities in the Russian Federation (generally including, but not limited to, a place of management, a branch, an office and a factory). Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the Russian Federation as a result of activities carried on in the Russian Federation through agents of the U.S. person. This summary does not address the treatment of holders described in this paragraph. The following discussion is based on: •the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and judicial and administrative interpretations thereof; •Russian legislation; and •the United States-Russia income tax treaty (and judicial and administrative interpretations thereof); 138 all as in effect on the date of this document. All of the foregoing are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis, after the date of this document. This discussion is also based, in part, on representations of the depositary, and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms. The discussion with respect to Russian legislation is based on our understanding of current Russian law and Russian tax rules, which are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. We believe, and the following discussion assumes, that for United States federal income tax purposes, we were not a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ending in 2007, we will not be a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year and we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future. However, passive foreign investment company determinations are made annually and may involve facts that are not within our control. If we were to be a passive foreign investment company, materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to an investor who is a "United States person" as defined in the Code. The following discussion is not intended as tax advice to any particular investor. It is also not a complete analysis or listing of all potential United States federal or Russian income and withholding tax consequences to you of ownership of ordinary shares or ADSs. We urge you to consult your own tax adviser regarding the specific United States federal, state, and local and Russian tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs under your own particular factual circumstances. Russian Income and Withholding Tax Considerations The Russian tax law does not contain any specific provisions establishing principles of withholding income tax in relation to ADSs. Recently, the Russian Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation issued a number of clarification letters where it stated that ADS holders should be treated as the beneficial owners dividends payable on of the underlying shares for the purposes of application of the relevant double tax treaty provisions. However, opinions expressed in these letters do not bind the Russian tax authorities and/or the courts. Furthermore, there is no certainty as to how the Russian tax authorities and/or courts will ultimately treat ADSs arrangements. In addition, local tax inspectors have considerable autonomy and often interpret tax rules without regard to the rule of law. Both the substantive provisions of the Russian tax law and the interpretation and application of those provisions by the Russian tax authorities may be subject to more rapid and unpredictable change than in jurisdictions with more developed capital markets. Generally, U.S. holders should be eligible for double tax treaty benefits to the extent the Russian treaty clearance procedures are performed. In this connection, a custodian should provide the issuer with the information on ADS holders prior to the dividends payment date. Pursuant to the private clarifications of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, such information, should, inter alia, include: •information on actual ADS holders; •information on the quantity of the deposited shares attributable to each particular ADS holder; and •information on the amount of dividends payable to each ADS holder. On an annual basis, a custodian should also provide the issuer with certificates confirming tax residency of ADS holders. It is currently unclear whether custodians will be willing or able to provide tax residency certificates for ADS holders or implement any procedures for holders to utilize benefits provided for by the applicable tax treaties. Thus, while a U.S. holder may technically be entitled to benefit from the 139 provisions of the United States-Russia double tax treaty, in practice, it may be difficult, time consuming or impossible to obtain such treaty relief. In the event that the Russian tax authorities do not treat U.S. holders as beneficial owners of the underlying shares, the benefits under of the United States-Russia double tax treaty would not be available to U.S. holders. Taxation of Dividends Dividends paid to U.S. holders generally will be subject to Russian withholding tax at a 15% rate. This tax may be reduced to 5% to 10% under the United States-Russia income tax treaty for U.S. holders; a 5% rate applies for U.S. holders who are legal entities owning 10% or more of the company's outstanding shares, and a 10% rate applies to dividends paid to U.S. holders, including individuals and legal entities, owning less than 10% of the company's outstanding shares. See "—United States-Russia Income Tax Treaty Clearance Procedures." If the appropriate documentation has not been provided to us before the dividend payment date, we are required to withhold tax at the full rate, and U.S. holders qualifying for a reduced rate under the United States-Russia income tax treaty then would be required to file claims for refund within three years with the Russian tax authorities. There is significant uncertainty regarding the availability and timing of such refunds. Taxation of Capital Gains Generally, the sale, exchange or other disposal of ADSs or the underlying shares by U.S. holders should not result in any Russian income or withholding taxes to the extent a counterparty is not a Russian resident. In this context, "Russian residents" and "Russian buyers" are deemed to be either Russian legal entities or Russian permanent establishments of foreign legal entities located in Russia. However, sales or other disposal of ADSs or the underlying shares to a Russian resident may be subject to Russian income or withholding taxes at a rate of 20-30% to be withheld at source by a Russian counterparty. The tax should be calculated either on the basis of capital gains realized upon the sale or the total amount of income received depending on whether the documentation supporting the costs incurred upon acquisition is available and status of a U.S. holder (an individual or a legal entity). There are not, however, any mechanisms of withholding tax calculation and application established for a Russian resident with respect to purchase of ADSs via the New York Stock Exchange or any other foreign exchanges. Regardless of the residence of the purchaser or eligibility to the treaty benefits, a U.S. holder which is a legal entity should not be subject to any Russian income or withholding taxes in connection with the sale, exchange, or other disposition of ADSs if immovable property situated in Russia constitutes 50% or less of our assets or if ADSs are sold to purchasers via foreign exchanges where they are legally circulated. United States-Russia Income Tax Treaty Clearance Procedures Pursuant to the Russian Tax Code, in order to benefit under the applicable double tax treaty, a U.S. holder or a custodian acting on behalf of a U.S. holder should provide to the issuer the confirmation issued by the U.S. tax authorities, which would evidence its tax residency in the United States of America prior to the dividends payment date. The RussianTax Code does not provide for any further guidance on the format of documents confirming tax residency in a foreign state. The Russian tax authorities provided some additional guidance on this matter, pursuant to which such residency certificates can be issued in the form established under the U.S. law. It is further stated that a tax residency certificate should expressly refer to the period (calendar year) which should correspond to the period for which income is paid to a foreign legal entity. 140 The certificate must be signed and sealed (stamped) by the competent authority as required in the double tax treaty (or by an agency authorised by the competent authority). The above-mentioned documents must be legalised or bear an Apostille. It is possible to present to a Russian counterparty a notarised copy of the tax residency certificate instead of the original. A U.S. holder may obtain the appropriate certification by mailing completed forms, together with the holder's name, taxpayer identification number, tax return form number and the tax period for which certification is required, and other applicable information, to the United States Internal Revenue Service. The procedures for obtaining a certification are described in greater detail in the instructions to Internal Revenue Service Form 8802. As obtaining the required certification from the Internal Revenue Service may take at least six to eight weeks, U.S. holders should apply for such certification as soon as possible. If tax is withheld by a Russian resident on dividends or other amounts at a rate that is different from the rate provided in the tax treaty, a U.S. holder may apply for a tax refund by filing the required documents with the Russian local tax inspectorate to which the withholding tax was remitted within three years from the withholding date for U.S. holders which are legal entities, and within one year from the end of the year in which the withholding occurred for individual U.S. holders. The package should include the appropriate form (1011DT (2002) for non-dividend income and 1012DT (2002) for dividend income), certificate of residence of the foreign holder (IRS Form 6166), a copy of the agreement or other documents substantiating the payment of income, documents confirming the beneficial ownership of the dividends recipient and the transfer of tax to the Russian revenue. Under the provisions of the Tax Code, the refund of the tax should be effected within one month after the submission of the documents. However, procedures for processing such claims have not been clearly established, and there is significant uncertainty regarding the availability and timing of such refunds. Neither we nor the depositary have or will have any obligation to assist an ADS holder with the completion and filing of any tax forms. United States Federal Income Tax Considerations The following is a general description of the material United States federal income tax consequences that apply to you if you are, for United States federal income tax purposes, a beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation (including any entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. tax regardless of its source, or a trust, if a United States court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more United States persons can control all substantial trust decisions, or if the trust was in existence on August 20, 1996 and has properly elected to continue to be treated as a United States person. If a partnership (including any entity treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes) is a beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares, the United States federal income tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Since your United States federal income and withholding tax treatment may vary depending upon your particular situation, you may be subject to special rules not discussed below. Special rules will apply, for example, if you are: •an insurance company; •a tax-exempt organization; •a financial institution; •a person subject to the alternative minimum tax; 141 •a person who is a broker-dealer in securities; •an S corporation; •an expatriate subject to Section 877 of the Code; •an owner of, directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10 percent or more of the outstanding ordinary shares; or •an owner holding ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedge, straddle, synthetic security or conversion transaction. In addition, this summary is generally limited to persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as "capital assets" within the meaning of Section 1221 of the United States Internal Revenue Code and whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar. The discussion below also does not address the effect of any United States state or local tax law or foreign tax law. For purposes of applying United States federal income and withholding tax law, a holder of an ADS should be treated as the owner of the underlying shares of ordinary shares represented by that ADS. The United States Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom ADSs are pre-released may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming, by United States persons holding ADSs, of foreign tax credits for United States federal income tax purposes. Such actions would also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced rate of tax applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate United States persons, as described below. Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of Russian taxes described below, and the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate United States persons, could be affected by future actions that may be taken by the United States Treasury. Taxation of Dividends on Ordinary Shares or ADSs For United States federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of a distribution, including the amount of any Russian withholding taxes, with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as a taxable dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, computed in accordance with United States federal income tax principles. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2011, if you are a non-corporate taxpayer such dividends may be taxed at the lower applicable capital gains rate provided (1) certain holding period requirements are satisfied, (2) either (a) our ADSs continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange (or other national securities exchange that is registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Nasdaq Stock Market) or (b) we are eligible for the benefits of the United States-Russia income tax treaty, and (3) we are not, for the taxable year in which the dividend was paid, or in the preceding taxable year, a "passive foreign investment company." Non-corporate U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability of the lower capital gains rate to dividends received with respect to ADSs or shares of ordinary shares. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will be applied against and will reduce your tax basis in ordinary shares or ADSs and, to the extent in excess of such tax basis, will be treated as gain from a sale or exchange of such ordinary shares or ADSs. You should be aware that we do not intend to calculate our earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes and, unless we make such calculations, you should assume that any distributions with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be treated as a dividend, even if that distribution would otherwise be treated as a return of capital or as capital gain pursuant to the rules described above. If you are a corporation, you will not be allowed a deduction for dividends received in respect of distributions on ordinary shares or ADSs, which is generally available for dividends paid by U.S. corporations. 142 If a dividend distribution is paid in rubles, the amount includible in income will be the U.S. dollar value of the dividend, calculated using the exchange rate in effect on the date the dividend is includible in income by you, regardless of whether the payment is actually converted into U.S. dollars. Any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend is includible in your income to the date the rubles are converted into U.S. dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss. You may be required to recognize foreign currency gain or loss on the receipt of a refund of Russian withholding tax pursuant to the United States-Russia income tax treaty to the extent the United States dollar value of the refund differs from the dollar equivalent of that amount on the date of receipt of the underlying dividend. Russian withholding tax at the rate applicable to you under the United States-Russia income tax treaty should be treated as a foreign income tax that, subject to generally applicable limitations and conditions, is eligible for credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability or, at your election, may be deducted in computing taxable income. If, however, the holder of an ADS is not treated as the owner of the underlying ordinary shares represented by the ADS for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then Russian withholding tax would not be treated as a foreign income tax eligible for credit as described in the preceding sentence. If Russian tax is withheld at a rate in excess of the rate applicable to you under the United States-Russia income tax treaty, you may not be entitled to credits for the excess amount, even though the procedures for claiming refunds and the practical likelihood that refunds will be made available in a timely fashion are uncertain. For United States foreign tax credit purposes, a dividend distribution will be treated as foreign source income and will generally be classified as "passive category income" but could, in the case of certain U.S. holders, constitute "general category income." The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit, or deduction in lieu of the foreign tax credit, are complex and you should consult your own tax advisors with respect to those rules. Taxation on Sale or Exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADSs The sale of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally result in the recognition of gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale and your adjusted basis in such ordinary shares or ADSs. That gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares or ADSs are capital assets in your hands and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares or ADSs have been held for more than one year. If you are an individual, such realized long-term capital gain is generally subject to a reduced rate of United States federal income tax. Limitations may apply to your ability to offset capital losses against ordinary income. Deposits and withdrawals of ordinary shares by you in exchange for ADSs will not result in the realization of gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Gain realized on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be treated as U.S. source income and therefore the use of foreign tax credits relating to any Russian taxes imposed upon such sale may be limited. You are strongly urged to consult your own tax advisors as to the availability of tax credits for any Russian taxes withheld on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding Dividends and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs that are paid in the United States or by a U.S.-related financial intermediary will be subject to U.S. information reporting rules and U.S. backup withholding tax, unless you are a corporation or other exempt recipient. In addition, you will not be subject to backup withholding if you provide your taxpayer identification number and certify that no loss of exemption from backup withholding has occurred. Holders that are not U.S. persons generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding, but such holders may be required to provide certification as to their non-U.S. status. 143 F. Dividends and Paying Agents Not applicable. G. Statement by Experts Not applicable. H. Documents on Display We are subject to the informational requirements of the U.S. Exchange Act, and in accordance therewith file periodic reports and other information with the SEC. These materials, including this annual report and the exhibits hereto filed by us, may be examined without charge at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available at the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Information regarding us is also available on our website at http://www.rt.ru/en. Information included on our website does not form part of this annual report. I. Subsidiary Information Not applicable. Item 11. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our significant market risk exposures are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk. Interest rate risk mainly relates to floating rate debt denominated primarily in U.S. dollars and euros. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 82% of our interest bearing loans carried floating interest rates, as compared to approximately 86% as of December 31, 2006. Exchange rate risk relates to our foreign currency indebtedness and, to a lesser extent, our foreign currency denominated cash, receivables and payables and foreign currency denominated revenues and costs. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 89% of our total borrowings were denominated in foreign currencies compared to 94% as of December 31, 2006. We do not use financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency options or forward rate agreements, to hedge these market risks. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in Russian rubles. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 10%, as compared to approximately 8% for the year ended December 31, 2006, of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the Russian ruble, principally in U.S. dollars and Special Drawing Rights ("SDR"), which is valued on the basis of a basket of key international currencies and serves as a settlement unit between us and a number of foreign telecommunications operators. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 15% of our costs (excluding depreciation, impairment and bad debt expense) are denominated in currencies other than the Russian ruble, principally SDR and U.S. dollars, as compared to approximately 14% for the year ended December 31, 2006. We receive foreign currency revenues from incoming ILD calls and incur foreign currency expenses for outgoing ILD calls. In 2007, we were a net payer of foreign currency because the volume of outgoing ILD traffic exceeded the volume of incoming ILD traffic and we paid more foreign currency to foreign operators than we received. The net balance denominated in foreign currencies (principally in SDR and U.S. dollars) payable by us to foreign operators was RUR 191 million as of December 31, 2007, as compared to RUR 1,020 million as of December 31, 2006. To the extent that we are not naturally hedged against changes in exchange rates, we are exposed 144 to foreign exchange gains and losses. We are not engaged in any active hedging of the foreign exchange risk arising out of our operating activities. Interest Rate Sensitivity As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding borrowings of RUR 2,784 million, of which approximately RUR 2,291 million bore interest at floating rates, as compared to outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2006 of RUR 3,478 million, of which approximately RUR 3,013 million bore interest at floating rates. The interest rate on our floating rate debt is determined principally by reference to London Inter Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and European Inter Bank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). In connection with the $100 million loan from Vnesheconombank and CSFB, we entered into interest rate swap agreement with CSFB on June 28, 2006. In accordance with this agreement, each June 28 and December 28, commencing on December 28, 2006 and ending on December 28, 2012, we undertake an obligation to CSFB in the amount of 8.55% of the outstanding Vnesheconombank loan balance and CSFB undertakes an obligation to us in the amount of LIBOR plus 3.25% of the outstanding Vnesheconombank loan balance. We did not designate the above interest rate swap derivative as a hedging instrument. Therefore, this financial instrument was classified as financial liability at the fair value of RUR 73 million. The net loss of RUR 58 million relating to the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap contract was included in non-operating income in our consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2007. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the additional net future financing expense that would have resulted from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 1000 basis points in the interest rate applicable to these loans is approximately RUR 51 million, as compared to approximately RUR 83 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The above sensitivity analysis is based on the assumption of an unfavorable 1000 basis point movement of the interest rates applicable to each homogeneous category of financial assets and liabilities. A homogeneous category is defined according to the currency in which financial assets and liabilities are denominated and assumes the same interest rate movement within each category. Exchange Rate Sensitivity We have exchange rate exposure primarily with respect to indebtedness denominated in currencies other than the ruble. As of December 31, 2007, RUR 2,474 million of our interest bearing loans, as compared to RUR 3,283 million as of December 31, 2006, are denominated in foreign currencies, including RUR 2,397 million in U.S. dollars and RUR 77 million in euros. The additional future interest expense that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately RUR 52 million. For the year ended December 31, 2007, such a change would also have resulted in an estimated foreign exchange loss of approximately RUR 372 million as compared to RUR 453 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. This sensitivity analysis assumes an unfavorable 10% fluctuation in the exchange rates affecting the foreign currencies in which the indebtedness is denominated. Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the Russian ruble has increased by approximately 7.27% as compared to the U.S. dollar and decreased by approximately 3.44% as compared to the euro. Item 12. Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities None 145 Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies A. Defaults Due to insufficiency of cash flow generated by GlobalTel from its operating activities to cover both its operating expenses and refinancing its indebtedness in full, GlobalTel was in default of payments to Loral and GlobalStar L.P. as of December 31, 2007 in the amount of RUR 225 million. The loan from Loral does not provide for any collateral. A penalty in the amount of RUR 55 million is included in the outstanding balance. As of the date of this annual report, GlobalTel has not obtained waivers from Loral on the loan. In July 2006, Loral brought an action against GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of RUR 225 million. In March 2007, the London Court of International Arbitration, or LCIA, ruled in favor of Loral. However, in October 2007, the Arbitration Court of the city of Moscow dismissed Loral's claim to enforce the decision of the LCIA. GlobalTel is also in default in respect of payments of its vendor financing payable for 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 totaling RUR 1,246 million payable to GlobalStar L.P. for the purchase of three gateways and associated equipment. The vendor financing agreement provides for a pledge of all equipment received from GlobalStar L.P. under the agreement until all payments are made. The following table sets forth the amounts payable under the vendor financing and the periods payable: Period Millions of rubles Payable in 2004 395 Payable in 2005 171 Payable in 2006 171 Payable in 2007 171 Payable in 2008 100 Total 1,008 GlobalTel is in default with respect to payments due in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and has not obtained a waiver from Globalstar L.P. As a result, we classified the total balance of RUR 1,008 million as current in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. Penalty interest in the amount of RUR 238 million accrued for each day of delay at the rate of 10% per annum, and is included in the vendor financing payable. We believe that if immediate repayment of the defaulted vendor financing and loans is demanded, it would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with certain covenants in relation to a loan we obtained from Vnesheconombank and CSFB and no waiver had been obtained from the banks. Therefore, the entire loan amount was included in the current portion of long-term loans in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. Subsequently, in June 2008, we received notice from the banks confirming their waiver of the breach of the loan due to our non-compliance with the covenants. As of December 31, 2006, the outstanding indebtedness due within one year included the RUR 2,636 million loan provided by Vnesheconombank and CSFB, which was included in the current portion of long-term loans due to non-compliance with one of the covenants as of the balance sheet date, for which we had obtained a waiver in June 2007. Except as set forth above, as of the date of this annual report, we are not in default on any payment of principal or interest, a sinking or purchase fund installment. 146 B. Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies None. Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds None. Item 15. Controls and Procedures DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES As required by Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007. Disclosure controls and procedures refer to controls and other procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding our required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management was required to apply its judgment in evaluating and implementing possible controls and procedures. As described below, thirteen material weaknesses were identified in our internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5 defines a material weakness as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weaknesses identified, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level. MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting refers to a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: •pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; •provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and members of our board of directors; and 147 •provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process, and it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 using the framework set forth in the report of the Treadway Commission's Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO), "Internal Control—Integrated Framework." As a result of management's evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, management identified thirteen material weaknesses in our internal control. These material weaknesses are described below: 1)Lack of strategic plans and policies and insufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess key strategic risks and their impact on financial statements by directors and management We did not have a strategic development plan and sufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess strategic risks, including those directly related to our IFRS financial reporting objectives, including accurate and timely preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In the absence of such a plan, certain material investment and other strategic decisions could be made which may be contradictory to each other, and thus could materially affect disclosures and amounts reported in our financial statements, including tax contingencies, identification of cash generating units and allocation of goodwill to these units and the accuracy of reported asset values. The lack of effective controls contributed to the seventh and eighth material weaknesses set out below. 2)Insufficient IFRS skilled accounting and finance personnel We did not have sufficiently skilled accounting and finance personnel to appropriately develop, update and consistently and appropriately apply our accounting policies for external reporting under IFRS. Although having increased the number of accounting and finance personnel from 13 to 21 people during the year ended December 31, 2007, the existing team of accounting and finance personnel did not have an appropriate level of knowledge and experience regarding the complexity of our operations, transactions and internal procedures in order to meet the objectives mentioned above. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of our significant accounts and disclosures and contributed to other material weaknesses described below. The significant accounts affected included property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, other non-current assets, accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, revenue and bad debt expense. 3)Ineffective process for documenting and applying key accounting policies and procedures We did not have an effective process for documenting and applying our key accounting policies and procedures. Specifically, we did not put controls in place to ensure proper accounting and/or reporting classifications of certain income and expenses, accounts receivable and accounts payable, goodwill and intangible assets and completeness and accuracy of our pension liability. Furthermore, we did not consistently apply accounting policies involving capitalization of interest and failed to provide complete disclosure with respect to our related party transactions. This material weakness resulted in 148 material audit adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, revenue, bad debt expense and operating expenses. 4)Lack of processes and controls to identify, capture and communicate significant information We did not have in place processes and controls to identify, capture and communicate relevant and financially significant information to the appropriate accounting personnel on a timely basis. This contributed to an ineffective system of internal controls over our IFRS financial statements close process, in particular, relevant information was not timely and properly provided by the sales department, which resulted in material adjustments to taxes payable, taxes other than on income, operating expenses and current income tax. Additionally, this material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to further significant accounts, including property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, revenue and bad debt expense. 5)Lack of a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes We did not have in place a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes. In particular, we did not have a proper process in place necessary to appropriately develop, update and consistently and appropriately apply our accounting policies for the purposes of external reporting under IFRS. Furthermore, the preparation of our IFRS financial statements was carried out by conversion of the statutory accounts using summarized data without sufficient controls over the completeness, accuracy, validity and restricted access over complex spreadsheets used for this purpose. As a result, financially significant information was not analyzed, processed and reviewed properly and on a timely basis. This material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including other intangible assets, other non-current assets, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, including prepayments and compensation related accruals, revenue, bad debt expense and operating expenses. 6)Lack of effective IT general controls We did not maintain effective IT general controls. Specifically, we did not design and put in place effective logical access and change management controls related to our billing, payroll and accounting systems. As a result, in respect of logical access procedures we did not have controls in place for the proper management of user accounts in corresponding information systems, password and general security settings, physical access monitoring and the review of actions performed by users, including system administrators. Furthermore, our ineffective change management controls did not allow us to have reasonable assurance that all changes made to relevant information systems have been properly approved and tested. Moreover, we did not maintain effective controls over the testing of our back-up system to ensure data availability and integrity. This material weakness created a reasonable possibility that the application controls, which rely upon these IT general controls, are ineffective resulting in a reasonable possibility of a material misstatement of several of our significant accounts, including revenue and wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes. 7)Ineffective controls over impairment reviews of long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill We did not have sufficient processes and effective controls over the potential impairment of our long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill. In particular, we failed to accurately identify cash generating units for the purposes of impairment analysis. This material weakness resulted in material adjustments to goodwill and other intangible assets. 8)Ineffective controls over our accounting for subsidiaries and associates We did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for our subsidiaries and associates and the related disclosures in accordance with IFRS. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls 149 over the preparation and timely provision of information for the IFRS financial statements by our consolidated subsidiaries and associates to the IFRS reporting department. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including current and non-current accounts payable and equity method investments, including related gains and losses. 9)Ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of accounting for settlements with contractors We did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of our accounting for settlements with contractors. Specifically, we did not design and put in place effective controls to ensure proper reconciliation of balances (e.g., accounts payables) with contractors and to undertake sufficient follow-up procedures on reconciling items to ensure certain financial data in our consolidated financial statements is accurate. Moreover, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure proper off-setting of advances paid with related payables in accordance with certain agreement terms and did not ensure appropriate accounting for cut-off issues. This material weakness resulted in a material adjustment to accounts payable and accrued liabilities and operating expenses. 10)Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues and expenses under agency agreements We did not maintain effective processes and controls over the accounting for certain of our revenues and expenses from the provision of long distance telecommunication services under agency agreements. We used agents to process subscriber data, prepare source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills and collect payments from our subscribers. As a result, we relied on our agents' billing systems and processes without sufficient internal controls to record and report revenues and expenses from our subscribers associated with these agents. This material weakness resulted in a material adjustment to certain of our significant accounts, including accounts receivable and revenue. 11)Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues under direct agreements with end users We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for revenue from the provision of long distance telecommunication services and related accounts receivable for direct agreements with end users. Specifically, we did not design and properly perform controls over the registration and processing of subscriber and commercial data and over the preparation and delivery of invoices. This material weakness resulted in material adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, revenue and bad debt expense. 12)Lack of effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables. Specifically, our controls were not designed and operating effectively to ensure the completeness and accuracy of revenues generated from the rent of channel, free-phone and internet protocol based services and equipment maintenance. This material weakness did not result in material adjustments to our consolidated financial statements; however, there is a reasonable possibility that due to this control deficiency a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements related to the revenue and respective accounts receivables line items will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 13)Insufficient process and ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of deferred income tax balances and related disclosures We did not have sufficient processes and effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of our deferred income tax balances and related disclosure in accordance with IFRS. Specifically, we did not maintain adequate controls over the review of our subsidiaries' tax registers and filings, as well as over the calculation of deferred taxes, including classification of the difference between the tax basis 150 and the IFRS accounting basis as temporary and permanent. In addition, we did not establish, design and test controls related to the valuation of our deferred tax assets. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including deferred tax liability and current income tax charge. As a result of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2007 based on the "Internal Control—Integrated Framework" set forth in COSO. The independent registered public accountants, Ernst & Young LLC, audited our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. The effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting has been audited by Ernst & Young LLC as stated in their report appearing below, which expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Remediation Activities Management believes the measures that have been implemented to remediate the material weaknesses have had a material impact on our internal control over financial reporting since December 31, 2007, and anticipates that these measures and other ongoing enhancements will continue to have a material impact on our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. We expect our remediation efforts for each material weakness identified above to continue in fiscal years 2008 and 2009. To remediate these material weaknesses, we have adopted or will adopt the following changes: •With respect to the first material weakness described above, our Board of Directors approved a risk management policy in 2007. The risk management policy largely sets out our internal rules for communicating risks to our Board of Directors. In addition, management developed and approved risk management procedures and methodologies, among others, designed to reduce the possibility of making material misrepresentations in our disclosures and amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements. Our management participated in a series of training sessions regarding the identification and application of risk management policies and procedures during 2007 and through the date of the preparation of our Form 20-F. In order to support our Management Board in managing potential risks and developing internal controls, we established the Internal Control Committee in 2007 under the Management Board. The Internal Control Committee regularly discusses risks and control deficiencies significantly affecting our financial statements, as well as deficiencies causing material weaknesses. Since its establishment, the Internal Control Committee has met on average twice a month. In addition, we expect to approve a risk management program in 2008. •With respect to the first material weakness described above, we also developed and discussed with our Strategic Planning Committee (which is a Board of Directors committee) our development plan, which sets out our strategic goals and initiatives over the next five years with respect to our growth and development, potential mergers and acquisitions and ways in which we can optimize our efficiency, among other things. Once it is approved, we intend to bring our operating plans and risk assessment procedures in line with the development plan. •With respect to the second material weakness described above, we have analyzed the competency of our finance personnel in 2007 and the availability of resources to support the financial statements close process and meet present and future reporting requirements. Based on an internal analysis of identified deficiencies, including material weaknesses and audit adjustments, we developed a general reorganization plan, discussed its implementation with our Audit Committee and, to that end, adopted a new organizational structure for our accounting 151 and internal control departments. We created additional divisions within these two departments to further enable segregation of duties and allow levels of internal review and supervision within the two departments. In accordance with the recruitment plan, we hired eight qualified accounting specialists in addition to the existing thirteen employees directly participating in the preparation of IFRS financial statements. Moreover, we significantly expanded our training program for our accounting and internal control personnel. Our management, including CFO, with the assistance of the increased accounting team is now in the process of improving the overall financial statements close process, as described below. •With respect to the third, fourth and fifth material weaknesses described above, we enhanced our accounting and reporting policies and procedures in 2008, including creating checklists for accounting personnel regarding the documentation of actual performance of procedures and controls on a timely basis, and are in the process of automating the preparation of our consolidated financial statements using the financial reporting module within our ERP system. In addition, we are in the process of establishing additional review procedures to be performed by qualified accounting personnel over our period-end financial reporting process and accounting for significant non-routine transactions and complex accounting issues. We are also in the process of improving the documentation of our significant accounting policies. •With respect to the sixth material weakness described above, we are re-designing our policies and procedures with respect to logical access and change management controls over our billing, payroll and accounting systems. In 2007, we designed a disaster recovery plan with the assistance of a leading Russian IT-consulting firm and implemented the change management process for payroll and accounting systems and are now in process of implementing such a process for our billing system. Simultaneously, we are improving procedures set up in 2007 and plan to implement these changes in 2008 and 2009. •With respect to the seventh material weakness described above, we are in the process of formalizing our procedures related to the analysis of the potential impairment of long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill, and designed a process which includes a more robust review and better approval procedures relating to allocating goodwill over cash generating units. •With respect to the eighth material weakness described above, we designed a new financial statement closing process, which includes automating the preparation of our consolidated subsidiaries' financial statements using the ERP system, as well as a more careful review of financial statements for consolidated subsidiaries and associates by qualified accounting personnel and our management. In addition, we formalized our procedures related to the accounting for subsidiaries, associates and other investments, and we expect to put sufficient controls in place in 2008. •With respect to the ninth, eleventh and twelfth material weaknesses described above and based on an analysis of the control deficiencies identified by management, we are currently enhancing the monitoring of the operating effectiveness of our existing controls and designing and implementing new controls over the accounting for settlement with contractors, for revenues generated from and the accounts receivables related to direct agreements with end users and related to other telecommunications services, including the rent of channel, free-phone and internet protocol based services and equipment maintenance, and we expect to improve the operating effectiveness of existing controls and put additional controls in place in 2008. •With respect to the tenth material weakness described above, we are currently analyzing different ways to remediate the material weakness relating to the recognition of revenue and expenses under the agency agreements. In particular, we are comparing the costs, benefits and risks of either implementing our own controls over the reconciliation of volumes of services rendered and cash collected or establishing an audit process of our agents' internal controls in 152 accordance with the Statement on Audit Standard SAS No. 70, "Service Organizations," and remediate any control deficiencies identified in our agents' control system. However, we do not expect to fully design and implement either of these remediation activities by the end of 2008. •With respect to the thirteenth material weakness described above, we designed, formalized and automated the process of calculation of deferred taxes and intend to apply additional monitoring control procedures during the year-end financial statements close process for 2008. In addition, we are designing a process and implementing additional control procedures relating to our subsidiaries' tax registers and filings. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, whether any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this annual report have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. In our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006, we reported the material weakness entitled Inadequate Audit Committee oversight over our financial reporting process in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2006. To remediate this material weakness, the Audit Committee started to focus in 2007 on improving our internal control over financial reporting. See "Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—C. Board Practices—Board Committees—Audit Committee" for the composition of our Audit Committee. In particular, the Audit Committee met with the Board of Directors and key finance personnel on a regular basis and monitored our risk assessment process, the status of management's assessment of internal controls over financial reporting, results of our financial reporting procedures, including our remediation plans, and actions taken related to control deficiencies that had been identified. In 2006, we began providing long distance telecommunications services in regions outside of Moscow to end users through direct agreements. For more information, see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Overview." In 2007, we introduced in our Ural branch new channels of direct sales and began handling certain billing and reporting functions that had in the past been outsourced to third-party providers under agency agreements. We still outsource certain functions when dealing with our end users, including delivery of invoices and, in certain instances, collection of payment from such end users. As a result, our volume of services and revenues under such direct agreements increased materially. However, we did not have in place effective controls over the accounting for such revenues and related accounts receivable. We are currently re-designing the business process and services we provide pursuant to the direct agreements in an effort to remediate this material weakness, but we do not expect to complete such remediation activities by the end of 2008. Except as indicated above, there have not been any changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our last fiscal year that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. ATTESTATION REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Shareholders of OAO Rostelecom We have audited OAO Rostelecom, an open joint stock company, and subsidiaries' (hereinafter referred to as the "Group's") internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Group's management 153 is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The following thirteen material weaknesses have been identified and included in management's assessment: Lack of strategic plans and policies and insufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess key strategic risks and their impact on financial statements by directors and management The Group did not have a strategic development plan and sufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess strategic risks, including those directly related to the Group's IFRS financial reporting objectives, including accurate and timely preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In the absence of such a plan, certain material investment and other strategic decisions could be made which may be contradictory to each other, and thus could materially affect disclosures and amounts reported in the Group's financial statements, including tax contingencies, identification of cash generating units and allocation of goodwill to these units and the accuracy of reported asset values. The lack of effective controls contributed to the seventh and eighth material weaknesses set out below. Insufficient IFRS skilled accounting and finance personnel The Group did not have sufficiently skilled accounting and finance personnel to appropriately develop, update and consistently and appropriately apply its accounting policies for external reporting 154 under IFRS. Although having increased the number of accounting and finance personnel from 13 to 21 people during the year ended December 31, 2007, the existing team of accounting and finance personnel did not have an appropriate level of knowledge and experience regarding the complexity of the Group's operations, transactions and internal procedures in order to meet the before mentioned objectives. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts and disclosures and contributed to other material weaknesses described below. The significant accounts affected included property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, other non-current assets, accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, revenue and bad debt expense. Ineffective process for documenting and applying key accounting policies and procedures The Group did not have an effective process for documenting and applying its key accounting policies and procedures. Specifically, the Group did not put controls in place to ensure proper accounting and/or reporting classifications of certain income and expenses, accounts receivable and accounts payable, goodwill and intangible assets and completeness and accuracy of the Group's pension liability. Furthermore, the Group did not consistently apply accounting policies involving capitalization of interest and failed to provide complete disclosure with respect to the Group's related party transactions. This material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts, including accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, revenue, bad debt expense and operating expenses. Lack of processes and controls to identify, capture and communicate significant information The Group did not have in place processes and controls to identify, capture and communicate relevant and financially significant information to the appropriate accounting personnel on a timely basis. This contributed to an ineffective system of internal controls over the Group's IFRS financial statements close process, in particular, relevant information was not timely and properly provided by the sales department, which resulted in material adjustments to taxes payable, taxes other than on income, operating expenses and current income tax. Additionally, this material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to further significant accounts, including property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets, accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, revenue and bad debt expense. Lack of a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes The Group did not have in place a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes. In particular, the Group did not have a proper process in place necessary to appropriately develop, update and consistently and appropriately apply its accounting policies for the purposes of external reporting under IFRS. Furthermore, the preparation of the Group's IFRS financial statements was carried out by conversion of the statutory accounts using summarized data without sufficient controls over the completeness, accuracy, validity and restricted access over complex spreadsheets used for this purpose. As a result, financially significant information was not analyzed, processed and reviewed properly and on a timely basis. This material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts, including other intangible assets, other non-current assets, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, including prepayments and compensation related accruals, revenue, bad debt expense and operating expenses. Lack of effective IT general controls The Group did not maintain effective IT general controls. Specifically, the Group did not design and put in place effective logical access and change management controls related to the Group's billing, payroll and accounting systems. As a result, in respect of logical access procedures the Group did not 155 have controls in place for the proper management of user accounts in corresponding information systems, password and general security settings, physical access monitoring and the review of actions performed by users, including system administrators. Furthermore, the Group's ineffective change management controls did not allow the Group to have reasonable assurance, that all changes made to relevant information systems have been properly approved and tested. Moreover, the Group did not maintain effective controls over the testing of its back-up system to ensure data availability and integrity. This material weakness created a reasonable possibility that the application controls, which rely upon these IT general controls, are ineffective resulting in a reasonable possibility of a material misstatement of several of the Group's significant accounts, including revenue and wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes. Ineffective controls over impairment reviews of long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill The Group did not have sufficient processes and effective controls over the potential impairment of its long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill. In particular, the Group failed to accurately identify cash generating units for the purposes of impairment analysis. This material weakness resulted in material adjustments to goodwill and other intangible assets. Ineffective controls over the Group's accounting for subsidiaries and associates The Group did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for its subsidiaries and associates and the related disclosures in accordance with IFRS. Specifically, the Group did not maintain effective controls over the preparation and timely provision of information for the IFRS financial statements by its consolidated subsidiaries and associates to the IFRS reporting department. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts, including current and non-current accounts payable and equity method investments, including related gains and losses. Ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of accounting for settlements with contractors The Group did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of the Group's accounting for settlements with contractors. Specifically, the Group did not design and put in place effective controls to ensure proper reconciliation of balances (e.g., accounts payables) with contractors and to undertake sufficient follow-up procedures on reconciling items to ensure certain financial data in the Group's consolidated financial statements is accurate. Moreover, the Group did not maintain effective controls to ensure proper off-setting of advances paid with related payables in accordance with certain agreement terms and did not ensure appropriate accounting for cut-off issues. This material weakness resulted in a material adjustment to accounts payable and accrued liabilities and operating expenses. Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues and expenses under agency agreements The Group did not maintain effective processes and controls over the accounting for certain of its revenues and expenses from the provision of long distance telecommunication services under agency agreements. The Group used agents to process subscriber data, prepare source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills and collect payments from the Group's subscribers. As a result, the Group relied on its agents' billing systems and processes without sufficient internal controls to record and report revenues and expenses from the Group's subscribers associated with these agents. This material weakness resulted in a material adjustment to certain of our significant accounts, including accounts receivable and revenue. 156 Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues under direct agreements with end users The Group did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for revenue from the provision of long distance telecommunication services and related accounts receivable for direct agreements with end users. Specifically, the Group did not design and properly perform controls over the registration and processing of subscriber and commercial data, as well as preparation and delivery of invoices. This material weakness resulted in material adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts, including accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, revenue and bad debt expense. Lack of effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables The Group did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables. Specifically, the Group's controls were not designed and operating effectively to ensure the completeness and accuracy of revenues generated from the rent of channel, free-phone and internet protocol based services and equipment maintenance. This material weakness did not result in material adjustments to the Group's consolidated financial statements; however, there is a reasonable possibility that due to this control deficiency a material misstatement of the Group's consolidated financial statements related to the revenue and respective accounts receivables line items will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Insufficient process and ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of deferred income tax balances and related disclosures The Group did not have sufficient processes and effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of its deferred income tax balances and related disclosure in accordance with IFRS. Specifically, the Group did not maintain adequate controls over the review of its subsidiaries' tax registers and filings, as well as over the calculation of deferred taxes, including classification of the difference between the tax basis and the IFRS accounting basis as temporary and permanent. In addition, the Group did not establish, design and test controls related to the valuation of its deferred tax assets. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of the Group's significant accounts, including deferred tax liability and current income tax charge. These material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the Group's December 31, 2007 consolidated financial statements, and this report does not affect our report dated June 30, 2008 on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, because of the effect of the material weaknesses described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the Group has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO criteria. /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLC Moscow, Russia June 30, 2008 Item 16A. Audit committee financial expert The Board of Directors has determined that Yevgeny I. Logovinsky is an "audit committee financial expert" as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Mr. Logovinsky is an independent board member as defined under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards. 157 Item 16B. Code of Ethics On December 27, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted our Code of Ethics. A copy of the Code of Ethics is available on our corporate website (http://www.rt.ru/en/centr-invest/corporate/corp_doc/). The Code of Ethics was prepared with the aim of satisfying the requirements and recommendations of the New York Stock Exchange and the SEC. It sets forth standards for the business conduct and ethical behavior of members of our Board of Directors, Audit Commission, officers and employees, including: •full compliance with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules and regulations; •compliance with a required standard of business ethics and with methods of resolving conflicts of interest between personal and professional activities; •prompt and full disclosure of information to be submitted to Russian and foreign governments, regulatory agencies, stock exchanges, shareholders, investors and other stakeholders; •compliance with the requirements of our internal regulations with respect to the safekeeping and use of confidential information obtained as a result of the performance of official duties; •prohibitions against the abuse of official powers for personal gain, including the use of our property; and •notification to the Audit Committee of breaches of the Code of Ethics and, if required, of any consideration of a possible waiver from the Code of Ethics. As of the date of this annual report, no waivers, including implicit waivers, from the provisions of the Code of Ethics had been granted. Item 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Audit fees For professional services rendered for the audits of our financial statements and our consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, Ernst & Young LLC, or Ernst & Young, billed a total of $3,085,000 and $2,300,000, respectively. These amounts are net of VAT and include fees billed for audits of our and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries' financial statements prepared under both International Financial Reporting Standards and Russian statutory accounting regulations and the reading of the information included in our annual reports. Audit-related fees For professional audit-related services rendered, Ernst & Young billed us and our consolidated subsidiaries a total of $175,568 and $231,000, net of VAT, in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Audit-related services included the review of interim financial statements. Tax fees None. All other fees For other services related to pre-acquisition due diligence of RTComm.Ru, Ernst & Young billed us and our consolidated subsidiaries a total of $300,000, net of VAT, in 2007. In 2006, no other services were provided by Ernst & Young. 158 Pre-approval policies and procedures All of the audit and audit-related services described above were pre-approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considered whether the non-audit services rendered by Ernst & Young were compatible with maintaining its independence as auditors of our financial statements and determined that they were. No hours expended by Ernst & Young to audit our financial statements for 2007 were attributed to work performed by persons other than the principal accountant's full-time, permanent employees. In accordance with its Regulations, the Audit Committee is directly responsible for the recommendation, compensation, retention and oversight of our independent auditors. The Audit Committee recommends the independent auditors to the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors nominates the independent auditors for approval by the general shareholders' meeting in accordance with the requirements of Russian legislation. Item 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees In accordance with Rule 10A-3(d) of the U.S. Exchange Act, we are required to disclose all exemptions from independent standards relating to the Audit Committee. As of the date of this annual report, we relied on one exemption from the independence requirements of U.S. Exchange Act Rule 10A-3 (b)(1)(ii)(B) which allows foreign private issuers to have a non-management affiliated person with only observer status serve on the Audit Committee. Elena P. Selvich serves as a member of the Audit Committee and meets the exemption requirements set forth in U.S. Exchange Act Rule 10A-3(b)(1)(iv)(D) as she: •is a representative of our affiliate, Svyazinvest; •has only observer status on, and is not a voting member or the chair of, the Audit Committee; and •does not serve as our executive officer. As of the date of this annual report, we did not rely on any exemptions other than as described above. Item 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers There were no purchases by or on our behalf or by or on behalf of any "affiliated purchaser" of shares or other units of any class of our equity securities during the period covered by this annual report. Item 17. Financial Statements Not applicable. Item 18. Financial Statements See pages F-1 to F-75 of our consolidated financial statements which are filed as part of this annual report. 159 Item 19. Exhibits Exhibit No Description 1.1 Charter (Articles of Association) of Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Communications Rostelecom (restated version No. 9), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 9, 2008+ 1.2 Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 2), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 15, 2003(2)+ 1.3 Regulations on the Board of Directors of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 7), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 9, 2008+ 1.4 Regulations on the Management Board of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 3), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 16, 2007(5) + 1.5 Regulations on the General Director of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 1), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 30, 2001(1) + 1.6 Regulations on the Audit Commission of OJSC Rostelecom (restated version No. 2), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 9, 2008+ 4.1 Termination Agreement, dated October 2, 2003, among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3)+ 4.2 Form of Agreement to Amend Financial Lease Agreement dated October 2, 2004, among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3)+ 4.3 Form of Agreement to Amend Financial Lease Agreement, dated December 26, 2003 among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3) 4.4 Form of Agreement to Novate Obligations under the Financial Lease Agreements, dated January 29, 2004, among RTC-Leasing and Rostelecom(3) 4.5 Form of Assignment, dated February 12, 2004 among RTC-Leasing and Westelcom(3) 4.6 Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.4 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF dated August 8, 2003 between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(4)+ 4.7.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.2 Additional Agreement No. 2 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 160 4.7.3 Additional Agreement No. 3 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated August 10, 2007, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.8 Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(4)+ 4.8.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.8.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated August 10, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.9 Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 05-21/0155, dated October 24, 2003, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(4)+ 4.9.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated June 4, 2007, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10 Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 161 4.10.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.5 Appendix No. 4 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.11 Service Provision Agreement No. 1096-05 (748-05-23), dated December 27, 2005, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(4)+ 4.11.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 , dated July 4, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 1096-05 (748-05-23), dated December 27, 2005, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.12 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 03-01-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(4)+ 4.12.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated November 1, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 4.12.2 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated November 1, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 4.12.3 Agreement No. 2, dated October 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Agreement No. 03-01-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom+ 4.13 Service Provision Agreement No. 03-01-1035 (747-05-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(4)+ 4.13.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated August 16, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 03-01-1035 (747-05-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 4.14 Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(5)+ 4.14.5 Appendix No. 4 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(5)+ 4.15 Agreement, dated December 28, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.15.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 162 4.15.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 4.15.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 4.15.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated June 14, 2007, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(5)+ 4.16 Service Provision Agreement No. 751-05-23, dated December 28, 2005, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.16.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 751-05-23, dated December 28, 2005, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.17 Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.3 Appendixes No. 2, 3, 4 to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.4 Agreement, dated June 26, 2007, on Amendments to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(5)+ 4.18 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. UF/D-MRK-01/03, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.18.1 Additional Agreement No. 1a, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated March 26, 2007, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(5)+ 4.18.9 Version 2 of Appendix No. 5 to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.19 Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 163 4.19.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.19.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.20 Agency Agreement No. 596-08-16, dated April 17, 2008, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company+ 4.21 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(4)+ 4.21.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(5)+ 4.21.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 20, 2007, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(5)+ 4.22 Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(4)+ 4.22.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company+ 4.22.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated December 4, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company+ 4.23 Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DÎ(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. CF-00-00-1100, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(4)+ 4.24.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 164 4.24.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.25 Service Provision Agreement No. 749-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(4)+ 4.25.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 to the Contract between OAO Rostelecom and OJSC CenterTelecom No. 6479/05-DÎ (749-05-23) dated January 01, 2006(5)+ 4.25.2 Additional Agreement No. 2 to the Contract between OAO Rostelecom and OJSC CenterTelecom No. 6479/05-DÎ (749-05-23) dated January 01, 2006(5)+ 4.26 Agency Agreement No.35-06-23, dated November 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 8.1 List of subsidiaries of Rostelecom 11.1 The Code of Ethics of Rostelecom+ 12.1 Certification of the CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 12.2 Certification of the CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 13.1 Certification of the CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 13.2 Certification of the CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (1)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. (2)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002. (3)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. (4)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. (5)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. +English translation. 165 SIGNATURES The registrant hereby certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 20-F and that it has duly caused and authorized the undersigned to sign this annual report on its behalf. OPEN JOINT STOCK COMPANY LONG-DISTANCE AND INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ROSTELECOM Date: June 30, 2008 By: /s/ KONSTANTIN YU. SOLODUKHIN Name: Konstantin Yu. Solodukhin Title: General Director (CEO) By: /s/ ROMAN A. FROLOV Name: Roman A. Frolov Title: Chief Accountant (CFO) 166 OAO ROSTELECOM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007 INDEX Page Statement of Directors' Responsibilities F-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-3 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-4 Consolidated Statements of Income F-5 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-6 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity F-7 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-8 F-1 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES To the Shareholders of OAO Rostelecom 1.International convention requires that management prepare consolidated financial statements which present fairly, in all material respects, the state of affairs of the Group at the end of each financial period and of the results of operations and cash flows for each period. Management is responsible for ensuring that all Group entities keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of each entity and which enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and that their statutory accounting reports comply with Russian laws and regulations. They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 2.Management considers that, in preparing the consolidated financial statements set out on pages 5 to 67, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and that appropriate International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have been followed. 3.The consolidated financial statements, which are based on the statutory accounting reports adjusted to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards, are hereby approved on behalf of the Board of Directors. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors: /s/ KONSTANTIN YU. SOLODUKHINGeneral Director OAO Rostelecom 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya, 14, Moscow Russian Federation June 30, 2008 F-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To Board of Directors and Shareholders of OAO Rostelecom We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of OAO Rostelecom, an open joint stock company, and subsidiaries, (hereinafter referred to as the "Group") as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Group's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Group's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated June 27, 2008 expressed an adverse opinion thereon. /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLC Moscow, Russia June 30, 2008 F-3 OAO Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions of Russian Rubles) Notes December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 6 38,480 39,186 40,628 Goodwill and other intangible assets 7 2,745 2,795 — Investments in associates 9 494 330 331 Long-term investments 10 11,847 5,728 3,343 Other non-current assets 20 71 13 Total non-current assets 53,586 48,110 44,315 Current assets Inventory 447 564 761 Accounts receivable 11 8,429 8,821 5,232 Prepaid income tax 778 154 373 Short-term investments 12 6,920 8,496 12,238 Cash and cash equivalents 13 3,284 2,353 2,398 Total current assets 19,858 20,388 21,002 Total assets 73,444 68,498 65,317 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Share capital 14 100 100 100 Retained earnings including other reserves 56,027 50,820 49,597 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 56,127 50,920 49,697 Minority interest 26 25 — Total equity 56,153 50,945 49,697 Non-current liabilities Borrowings, net of current portion 18 172 298 3,232 Finance lease payable 16 396 427 369 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 15 269 326 378 Vendor financing payable 17 — 362 — Deferred tax liability 19 4,119 3,444 4,171 Total non-current liabilities 4,956 4,857 8,150 Current liabilities Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 15 7,445 7,372 4,056 Finance lease payable 16 108 78 52 Taxes payable 533 426 830 Vendor financing payable 17 1,637 1,640 1,677 Current portion of long-term borrowings 18 2,585 3,005 851 Short-term borrowings 27 175 4 Total current liabilities 12,335 12,696 7,470 Total liabilities 17,291 17,553 15,620 Total equity and liabilities 73,444 68,498 65,317 The notes on pages F-8 through F-75 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-4 OAO Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) Year ended December 31, Notes 2007 2006 2005 Revenue Telephone traffic 50,000 49,121 31,629 Rent of channels 7,725 7,116 6,045 Other revenue 6,877 5,322 3,281 Total revenue 20 64,602 61,559 40,955 Operating expenses Wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes (8,763 ) (7,147 ) (6,242 ) Depreciation and amortization 6, 7 (7,613 ) (8,418 ) (7,136 ) Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets 6, 7 (271 ) — (4,970 ) Charges by network operators—international (7,817 ) (7,304 ) (7,059 ) Charges by network operators—national (27,860 ) (29,355 ) (8,741 ) Administration and other costs 22 (6,670 ) (5,553 ) (3,877 ) Taxes other than on income (703 ) (621 ) (492 ) Repairs and maintenance (864 ) (866 ) (822 ) Bad debt (expense)/ recovery 11 (815 ) (389 ) 140 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (197 ) (601 ) (1,356 ) Total operating expenses (61,573 ) (60,254 ) (40,555 ) Operating profit 3,029 1,305 400 Income from associates 156 19 169 Interest expense (238 ) (133 ) (77 ) Interest income 907 900 886 Income from sale of investments — 52 408 Other non-operating (loss)/income (37 ) 81 55 Foreign exchange gain/(loss), net 183 219 (168 ) Profit before income tax 4,000 2,443 1,673 Current tax charge 19 (1,854 ) (2,411 ) (2,829 ) Deferred tax benefit 19 660 1,424 2,134 Income tax expense 19 (1,194 ) (987 ) (695 ) Profit after tax 2,806 1,456 978 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 2,805 1,458 978 Minority interest 1 (2 ) — Rubles Rubles Rubles Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent—basic and diluted (not in million of Russian Rubles) 24 2.89 1.50 1.01 The notes on pages F-8 through F-75 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-5 OAO Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions of Russian Rubles) Year ended December 31, Note 2007 2006 2005 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before income tax 4,000 2,443 1,673 Adjustments to reconcile net income before tax to cash generated from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 6, 7 7,613 8,418 7,136 Impairment losses 6, 7 271 — 4,970 Bad debt expense/(recovery) 11 815 389 (140 ) Income from associates (156 ) (19 ) (169 ) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 197 601 1,356 Gain from sale of investments — (52 ) (408 ) Net interest and other non-operating income (632 ) (848 ) (864 ) Foreign exchange (gain)/ loss, net (183 ) (219 ) 168 Changes in net working capital: Increase in accounts receivable (487 ) (4,242 ) (421 ) Decrease in inventories 117 198 44 (Decrease)/ increase in payables and accruals (116 ) 2,449 49 Cash generated from operations 11,439 9,118 13,394 Interest paid (257 ) (426 ) (193 ) Interest received 1,059 778 766 Income tax paid (2,454 ) (2,049 ) (3,024 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 9,787 7,421 10,943 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (7,157 ) (7,177 ) (7,788 ) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 231 414 183 Purchase of available-for-sale investments (570 ) — (59 ) Purchase of financial assets, other than available-for-sale investments (20,279 ) (14,594 ) (32,174 ) Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale investments, net of direct costs 38 67 699 Proceeds from sale of investment other than available-for-sale, net of direct costs 21,518 18,218 28,824 Dividends received from associates 4 97 99 Cash acquired as a result of obtaining control over ZAO GlobalTel — — 140 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired — (1,481 ) — Purchase of minority interest 8 (25 ) — — Net cash used in investing activities (6,240 ) (4,456 ) (10,076 ) Cash flows from financing activities Drawdown of interest bearing loans 415 898 3,082 Repayment of interest bearing loans and loan facilities (927 ) (1,297 ) (1,137 ) Repayment of lease obligations (105 ) (55 ) (33 ) Repayment of vendor financing payable (362 ) (711 ) — Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (1,630 ) (1,839 ) (1,637 ) Net cash (used in)/received from financing activities (2,609 ) (3,004 ) 275 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) (6 ) 1 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 931 (45 ) 1,143 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,353 2,398 1,255 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 3,284 2,353 2,398 Non-monetary transactions: Non-cash additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 49 962 412 The notes on pages F-8 through F-75 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-6 OAO Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (In millions of Russian Rubles) Attributable to equity holders of the parent Note Share capital Unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments Retained earnings Total Minority interest Total equity Balance at December 31, 2004 100 395 50,343 50,838 — 50,838 Effect of obtaining control over ZAO GlobalTel 5 — — (826 ) (826 ) — (826 ) Available-for-sale investments Valuation gain on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — 736 — 736 — 736 Transferred to profit on sale — (243 ) — (243 ) — (243 ) Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — 493 — 493 — 493 Profit for the period — — 978 978 — 978 Total income and expense — 493 978 1,471 — 1,471 Dividends 14 — — (1,786 ) (1,786 ) — (1,786 ) Balance at December 31, 2005 100 888 48,709 49,697 — 49,697 Acquisition of minority interest — — — — 27 27 Available-for-sale investments Valuation gain on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — 1,806 — 1,806 — 1,806 Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — 1,806 — 1,806 — 1,806 Profit for the period — — 1,458 1,458 (2 ) 1,456 Total income and expense — 1,806 1,458 3,264 (2 ) 3,262 Dividends 14 — — (2,041 ) (2,041 ) — (2,041 ) Balance at December 31, 2006 100 2,694 48,126 50,920 25 50,945 Acquisition of minority interest — — (25 ) (25 ) — (25 ) Available-for-sale investments Valuation gain on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — 4,223 — 4,223 — 4,223 Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — 4,223 (25 ) 4,198 — 4,198 Profit for the period — — 2,805 2,805 1 2,806 Total income and expense — 4,223 2,780 7,003 1 7,004 Dividends 14 — — (1,796 ) (1,796 ) — (1,796 ) Balance at December 31, 2007 100 6,917 49,110 56,127 26 56,153 The notes on pages F-8 through F-75 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-7 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 1. REPORTING ENTITY These consolidated financial statements are presented by OAO Rostelecom ("Rostelecom" or the "Company"), and its subsidiaries (together the "Group"), which are incorporated in the Russian Federation ("Russia"). The principal activity of the Group is to provide domestic (DLD) and international (ILD) long-distance telecommunication services to the Government, businesses and individuals of Russia. The Group operates the main intercity network and the international telecommunications gateways of the Russian Federation, carrying traffic that originates in other national and international operators' networks to other national and international operators for termination. The Company's headquarters are located in Moscow at 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya Street, 14. These consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, as detailed in Note 8. Rostelecom was established as an open joint stock company on September 23, 1993 in accordance with the Directive of the State Committee on the Management of State Property of Russia No. 1507-r, dated August 27, 1993. As of December 31, 2007, the Government of the Russian Federation controlled indirectly 50.67% of the voting share capital of the Company, by virtue of its 75% less one share direct holding in OAO Svyazinvest ("Svyazinvest"), the main shareholder of Rostelecom. 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and comply with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). The Group maintains its accounting records and prepares its statutory accounting reports in accordance with Russian accounting legislation and instructions in Russian Rubles (Rbl). These consolidated financial statements are based on the underlying accounting records, appropriately adjusted and reclassified for fair presentation in accordance with the standards and interpretations prescribed by the IASB. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, except for restatement of property, plant and equipment for the effects of inflation up to December 31, 2002, and measurement of available-for-sale investments at fair value and some other items when IFRS requires accounting treatment other than historical cost accounting (refer to Note 4). The functional currency of the Company and each of its subsidiaries and the reporting currency for these consolidated financial statements is the Russian Ruble. 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP General Whilst there have been improvements in the Russian economic situation, such as an increase in gross domestic product, Russia continues economic reforms and development of its legal, tax and regulatory frameworks as required by a market economy. The future stability of the Russian economy is The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-8 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP (Continued) largely dependent upon these reforms and developments and the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government. New scheme of settlements with regional subscribers and operators In 2005 a set of new rules and regulations in the national telecommunication sector was enacted by the Ministry of Information Technologies and ?ommunications as part of the regulatory reform and restructuring of the national telecommunications sector aimed to facilitate competition and make the industry more attractive for investors. New rules and regulations resulted in change of the Group's status as a monopoly supplier of long-distance and international telecommunication services, effective January 1, 2006. The new regulations allowed telecommunication operators to apply for long-distance telecommunication licenses, two alternative operators received the respective licenses and started providing long-distance and international communication services during 2006. Before January 1, 2006 the Group provided long-distance traffic transit services to Svyazinvest inter-regional telecommunications companies (IRCs) and to other Russian operators. In Moscow the Group provided long-distance services to subscribers directly. In every region of the Russian Federation, Svyazinvest IRCs and other operators independently billed for long-distance services provided to their local network subscribers (except for subscribers in Moscow). The operators settled with the Group for long-distance call transit and termination services, and the Group, in turn, paid the respective operator for call termination services. In Moscow the Group billed subscribers for long-distance services directly. Starting January 1, 2006, in accordance with the new regulations, the Group bills end users for long-distance services directly charging them the full tariffs, previously charged by the IRCs and other operators. This led to a significant increase in Revenue from telecommunication services starting 2006 and subsequent years and a material increase in accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006, as compared to the revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and accounts receivable as of December 31, 2005 due to the gross presentation of the revenue and receivables in the consolidated financial statements (refer to Notes 11 and 20). Currently, the Group does not have at its disposal sufficient staff and other resources to process, prepare and analyze source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills, and collect payments to the full extent necessary. In order to perform these activities and ensure the corresponding infrastructure to conform to the new regulatory requirements, effective January 1, 2006, the Group entered into service contracts with Svyazinvest IRCs and other operators of local and intra-regional networks to act as the Company's regional agents (contracted service providers). Contracted services include customer services to end users, invoicing, and collection of payments for long-distance services provided by the Group. While relying on resources and data supplied by contracted service providers in calculating charges for long-distance services, the Group bears responsibility for calculating charges in compliance with applicable regulations. As a result, starting from the year ended December 31, 2006 in addition to the fees paid for call termination services, the Group also incurred Agent fees in connection with the service contracts which are included in charges by national network operators in the consolidated statements of income. In addition, the new legislation introduced compensation payments which are to be made by the Group to The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-9 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP (Continued) IRC's as reimbursement for the expected reduction in their profitability. Charges by national network operators in the consolidated statements of income include such compensation payments of 3,612 (2006: 4,397). The above compensation payments were ended as of January 1, 2008. The new scheme of settlements significantly changed the income and expense structure as well as receivables and payables structure. The tables below summarize the effect of changes in telecommunication legislation on the Group's assets, liabilities, revenues and related expenses: December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Accounts receivable Local operators 729 331 Subscribers 2,756 — Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses Local operators (1,970 ) (48 ) Subscribers (348 ) (15 ) Net effect 1,167 268 Year ended December 31, 2006 Year ended December 31, 2005 Revenue from telecommunication services Local operators 520 17,618 Subscribers 34,985 164 Charges by network operators—national Agent fees (6,647 ) — Interconnection fees (18,111 ) (5,990 ) Bad debt expense (369 ) — Net effect 10,378 11,792 During the second half of 2006 and 2007 the Group started performing subscribers' billing and collection activities directly in relation to the largest subscribers located outside Moscow. The share of direct subscriber billing is constantly growing. Starting from September 1, 2007 the Group also significantly changed its scheme of settlements with subscribers in the Urals region. Before that date the Group had contracted OAO Uralsvyazinform (Svyazinvest IRC) as an agent for concluding contracts, billing subscribers, printing and delivery of invoices, collecting cash and claiming procedures for individuals and legal entities which were not direct subscribers. After September 1, 2007 the Group started billing all subscribers in the Urals region using its own billing system, but printing and delivery of invoices as well as collecting cash are still performed by other agents contracted by the Group. Revenues from servicing such subscribers for September - December 2007 amounted to 1,407. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-10 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP (Continued) Inflation The Russian economy has been characterized by relatively high rates of inflation. The following table summarizes the annual rate of inflation for the past three years: For the year ended December 31, Annual inflation 2007 11.9 % 2006 9.0 % 2005 10.9 % Source: Federal Service of Public Statistics 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Set out below are the principal accounting policies used to prepare these consolidated financial statements: Changes in Accounting Policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except that the Group has adopted those new/revised standards mandatory for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2007. The changes in accounting policies result from adoption of the following new or revised standards: •IAS 1 Amendment—Presentation of Financial Statements; •IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; •IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies; •IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2; •IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives; •IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment. The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 is to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Group's financial instruments, risk management policy and management of capital (see Notes 25, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32). The adoption of Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee did not have material impact on the Group's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-11 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Significant Accounting Judgments and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant estimates relate to the recoverability and depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment, fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, post employment benefits, allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred taxation. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Changes in estimate of useful lives The Group assesses the remaining useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. In March 2006 the Company formalized a plan to gradually discontinue using analog trunk lines and equipment beginning from January 2006 and through the end of 2010. The Company has accordingly revised its estimate of the remaining period of use of the analog lines and equipment prospectively effective January 1, 2006. The net effect of change in useful lives of analog trunk lines for the year ended December 31, 2007 was to increase depreciation by 243 (2006: 1,393). The change in useful lives is expected to result in an increase of depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2008 by 163. Management believes this difference will be decreasing in the later years. Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities Acquired in Business Combinations The Group is required to recognize separately, at the acquisition date, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired or assumed in the business combination at their fair values, which involves estimates. Such estimates are based on valuation techniques, which require considerable judgment in forecasting future cash flows and developing other assumptions. Site Restoration Provisions The Group reviews site restoration provisions at each balance sheet date and adjusts them to reflect the current best estimate in accordance with IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-12 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Post-Employment Benefits The Group uses actuarial valuation method for measurement of the present value of defined post-employment benefit obligations and related current service cost (refer to Note 23). This involves the use of demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of current and former employees who are eligible for benefits (mortality, both during and after employment, rates of employee turnover, etc.) as well as financial assumptions (discount rate, future salary and benefit levels, etc.). Allowances The Group makes allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. Significant judgment is used to estimate doubtful accounts. In estimating doubtful accounts historical and anticipated customer performance are considered. Changes in the economy, industry, or specific customer conditions may require adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, allowances for doubtful accounts have been created in the amount of 2,187, 1,594 and 1,371, respectively (refer to Note 11). Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating unit(s) to which goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value of those cash flows. As at the reporting date the Group estimated the value in use of each cash-generating unit to be higher than the carrying amount of each unit's respective net assets including goodwill, except for ZAO Zebra Telecom. The carrying amount of consolidated goodwill as of December 31, 2007 is 702 (refer to Note 7). Litigations The Group exercises considerable judgment in measuring and recognizing provisions and the exposure to contingent liabilities related to pending litigations or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the final settlement. Because of the inherent uncertainties in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision. These estimates are subject to change as new information becomes available, primarily with the support of internal specialists, if available, or with the support of outside consultants, such as actuaries or legal counsel. Revisions to the estimates may significantly affect future operating results. Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-13 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by the Company, either through ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting share capital of the entity. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group balances, income and expenses and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated in full. Losses allocated to minority interest do not exceed the minority interest in the equity of the subsidiary unless there is a binding obligation of the minority to fund the losses. Losses in excess of minority interest are allocated to the Group. Associates in which the Group has significant influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Significant influence is usually demonstrated by the Group owning, directly or indirectly, between 20% and 50% of the voting ownership interest or by power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of associates. The Group's share of the net income or losses of associates is included in the consolidated statement of income, the Group's share of movement in reserves is recognized in equity and the Group's share of the net assets of associates is included in the consolidated balance sheet. An assessment of investments in associates for possible impairment or reversal of impairment recognized previously is performed when there is an indication that the asset has been impaired or the impairment losses recognized in prior years no longer exist. When the Group's share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the investment is reported at nil value and recognition of losses is discontinued except to the extent of the Group's commitment to fund future losses. Unrealized profits and losses that arise from transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated in the proportion to the Group's share in such associates. Goodwill and excess of acquirer's interest in the net fair value of acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair value of the Group's share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on an acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on an acquisition of an associate is included in the investments in associate. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses for goodwill may not be reversed. If the impairment loss recognized for the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying amount of the allocated goodwill, the additional amount of the impairment loss is recognized by allocating to other assets on pro rata basis, but not below their fair value unless another basis is more appropriate. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-14 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Goodwill is not amortized. Instead it is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date allocated to each of the cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination's synergies, irrespective of whether other assets and liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or group of units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is so allocated: •Represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and •Is not larger than a segment based on either the Group's primary or the Group's secondary reporting format determined in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, to which the goodwill relates. Where recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operations within that unit are disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of cash-generating unit retained. In case of excess of the Group's interest in the net fair value of acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost of business combination the Group: (a)reassesses the identification and measurement of the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the measurement of the cost of the combination: (b)recognizes in profit or loss any excess remaining after that reassessment immediately. Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the entity concept method, whereby, the difference between the consideration paid and the carrying value of net assets attributable to minority interests acquired is recognized directly in equity by charging or crediting retained earnings. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. The cost of the network comprises all qualifying expenditures up to and including the cabling and wiring to the local telephone operator's intercity exchange, and includes contractors' charges and payments on account, materials, direct labor, and interest costs on specific project financing up to the date of commissioning of the relevant assets. Dismantling costs are included in cost of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized if it can be clearly demonstrated that they extend the life of the asset or significantly increase its revenue generating capacity beyond its originally assessed standard of performance. Expenditure for continuing repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of income as incurred. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-15 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Items of property, plant and equipment that are retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the balance sheet along with the corresponding accumulated depreciation. Any difference between the net disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the item is reported as a gain or loss on derecognition. The gain or loss resulting from such retirement or disposal is included in the determination of net income. Depreciation is calculated on property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis from the time the assets are available for use, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Number of years Buildings and site services 10 - 50 Cable and transmission devices: • Channels 10 - 40 • Cable 30 - 40 • Radio and fixed link transmission equipment 15 - 20 • Telephone exchanges 15 Other 5 - 10 The useful life of assets encompasses the entire time they are available for use, regardless of whether during that time they are in use or idle. The useful lives and residual value of assets and methods are reviewed at each financial year-end or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for prospectively (refer to Note 6). Depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date the asset is classified as held for sale and the date the asset is derecognized. At each balance sheet date or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the Group's assets may be impaired. If any such indication exists, an assessment is made to establish whether the recoverable amount of the assets has declined below the carrying amount of those assets as disclosed in the financial statements. When such a decline has occurred, the carrying amount of the assets is reduced to the recoverable amount. The amount of any such reduction is recognized immediately as a loss in the statement of income. Any subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of the assets is reversed when the circumstances that led to the write-down or write-off cease to exist and there is persuasive evidence that the new circumstances and events will persist for the foreseeable future. Increase of the recoverable amount is limited to the lower of its recoverable amount and carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of the assets' fair value less cost to sell, or value in use. The value in use of the asset is estimated based on forecast of future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continued use of the asset and from the estimated net proceeds on disposal, discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. In 2005, the Group recognized an impairment loss of 4,970 (refer to Notes 6 and 7) related to the impact of the new rules and regulations of the regulatory reform and restructuring of the national telecommunication sector as The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-16 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) discussed in detail in Note 3. Based on management's analysis there were no indicators of impairment of property, plant and equipment or release of impairment losses of the previous year as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The determination of impairment of property, plant and equipment involves the use of estimates that include, but are not limited to, the cause, timing and amount of the impairment. Impairment is based on a large number of factors, such as changes in current competitive conditions, expectations of growth in the telecommunication industry, increased cost of capital, changes in the future availability of financing, technological obsolescence, discontinuance of service, current replacement costs and other changes in circumstances that indicate an impairment exists. The recoverable amount and the fair values are typically determined using a discounted cash flow method which incorporates reasonable market participant assumptions. The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of fair values for assets (or group of assets) requires management to make significant judgments concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, expected cash flows, applicable discount rates, useful lives and residual values. Methods used to determine the value in use include discounted cash flow-based methods and methods that use quoted stock market prices as a basis. These estimates, including the methodologies used, can have a material impact on the fair value and ultimately the amount of any property, plant and equipment impairment. Construction in progress represents properties under construction and is stated at cost. This includes cost of construction, plant and equipment and other direct costs. Construction in progress is not depreciated until the constructed or installed asset is ready for its intended use. Advances given to suppliers of property, plant and equipment are included in construction in progress. Interest costs on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalized during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. All other borrowing costs are expensed. Leases Service contracts that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey rights to the Group to use an asset or a group of assets in return for a payment or a series of fixed payments are accounted for as leases. Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease is determined based on the facts and circumstances of each arrangement to determine whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use that asset. Contracts meeting these criteria are then evaluated to determine whether they are either an operating lease or finance lease. Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the commencement of lease term at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-17 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) against income. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term unless there is a reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, in which case the assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Indefeasible Rights of Use (IRU) represent the right to use a portion of the capacity of a terrestrial or submarine transmission cable granted for a fixed period. IRUs are recognized as an asset when the Group has the specific indefeasible right to use an identified portion of the underlying asset, generally optical fibers or dedicated wavelength bandwidth, and the duration of the right is for the major part of the underlying asset's economic life. Such assets are included in property, plant and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets. They are depreciated over the shorter of the expected period of use and the life of the contract. Leases, including IRU leases, where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment when there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Amortization periods and methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from pervious estimates, the changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortization period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. The Group assesses whether there is any indication that a finite lived intangible asset may be impaired at each reporting date. The Group also performs annual impairment tests for finite lived assets not yet placed in use. The amortization expense on intangible assets with finite lives is included in depreciation and amortization expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but tested for impairment annually or more frequently when indicators of impairment exist, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-18 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Inventory Inventory principally consists of fuel and spare parts for the network. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each item to its present location and condition and its net realizable value. Cost is calculated on a first in first out basis. Items used in the construction of new plant and equipment are capitalized as part of the related asset. Net realizable value is determined with respect to current market prices less expected costs to disposal. Inventory used in the maintenance of equipment is charged to operating costs as utilized and included in repair and maintenance and other costs in the consolidated statements of income. Accounts receivable Trade and other accounts receivable are stated in the balance sheet at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. The allowance is created based on the historical pattern of collections of accounts receivable and specific analysis of recoverability of significant accounts. Bad debts are written off in the period in which they are identified. Financial instruments Financial instruments carried on the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, investments (other than in consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees), non-hedge derivatives, accounts receivable, accounts payable and borrowings. The particular recognition methods adopted for financial instruments are disclosed in the individual policy statements associated with each item. The Group classifies financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: loans and receivables, financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities at amortized cost. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and not originated with the intent to be sold immediately. Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. The calculation takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition and includes transaction costs and fees that are integral part of the effective interest rate. Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through amortization process. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are financial assets or liabilities which are either classified as held for trading or derivatives or are designated by the Group as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purposes of selling in the near term. Gains and losses on investments held for trading are recognized in income. All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost using effective interest rate method, except for derivative financial liabilities which are carried at their fair values. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-19 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Transactions with financial instruments are recognized using settlement date accounting. Assets are recognized on the day they are transferred to the Group and derecognized on the day that they are transferred by the Group. All other investments not classified in any of the two preceding categories are classified as available-for-sale. After initial recognition available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognized as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognized at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the determination of net income. At each balance sheet date or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the Group's investments may be impaired. Fair value of investment that are actively traded in organized markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet day. For investment where there is no active market fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such techniques include using recent arm's length transactions; references to current market value of other instruments which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models. Interest income from investments is accrued during the period in which it is earned. The Group invests temporarily available funds in bills of exchange issued by various Russian companies maturing within 12 months after the balance sheet date or with no fixed maturity, which the Group plans to sell during the next year. Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and have not been designated 'as at fair value through profit or loss'. In subsequent periods, borrowings are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortization process. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances with banks, and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, with insignificant risks of diminution in value. Deferred income taxes Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-20 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences: •except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and •in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: •except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and •in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized. Any such previously recognized reduction is reversed to the extent that it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset will be realized or the liability settled. Tax rates are based on laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Revenue and operating costs recognition Revenue and operating costs for all services supplied and received are recognized at the time the services are rendered. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the enterprise and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. Revenues and expenses are reported net of respective value added tax. Revenues from directly billed subscribers are recognized in the period where the services were provided based on the Group's billing system's data. Revenues from subscribers billed via agents are recognized in the period where the services were provided based on agent reports. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-21 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Prior to 2006, the Group charged and paid to regional local telephone operators and other telecommunication service providers in Russia either an agreed proportion of the amounts they billed to their subscribers or an agreed settlement rate based on traffic minutes. For outgoing telephone traffic originating in Moscow, subscribers were charged directly by the Group based on pre-set per minute tariffs regulated by the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications. As referred to in Note 3 above, effective January 1, 2006, as a result of regulatory reform in the telecommunication industry, new regulations and rules were put in force that changed principles of interaction between the Group, local operators and end users in providing long-distance services. The introduction of the new settlement system represents a change in business practice resulting in new accounting for changed practice. Therefore, starting from January 1, 2006, the Group charges all its subscribers throughout Russia for outgoing telephone traffic based on pre-set per minute tariffs regulated by the Ministry of Telecommunications. The Group is charged by regional local operators for originating and terminating calls. The Group also incurs agent fees in connection with the service contracts concluded with regional local operators. The Group charges amounts to foreign network operators for incoming calls and other traffic that originate outside Russia. The Group is charged by foreign operators for completing international calls. These revenues and costs are shown gross in the consolidated financial statements. Amounts payable to and receivable from the same operators are shown net in the balance sheet where a legal right of offset exists and there is intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Revenues from the sale of transmission capacity on terrestrial and submarine cables, which relates to IRU under operating leases where the Group is a lessor, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Provisions Provisions are recognised when when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to any provision is presented in Other non-operating income or loss or capitalized in an asset if it is required by IFRS. Employee benefits The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme which requires one-off contributions, representing net present value of future monthly payments to employees, to be made by the Group to a separately administered pension fund upon employees' dismissal. A participating employee with fifteen or more years of service in telecommunication industry is eligible for the pension provided dismissal is accepted within one month after the statutory retirement age. The pension fund is liable for payments to the retired employees. Under the scheme benefits payable are indexed periodically. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income immediately. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-22 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) The Group uses the Project Unit Credit Method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost. The Group also participates in a defined contribution plan. Contributions made by the Group on defined contribution plans are charged to expenses when incurred. Effective January 1, 2004, maximum contribution is established at 100.00 Rubles per month per employee. The Group accrues for the employees' compensated absences (vacations) as the additional amount that the Group expects to pay as a result of the unused vacation that has accumulated at the balance sheet date. Under provision of the Russian legislation, social contributions are made through a unified social tax ("UST") calculated by the Group by the application of a regressive rate (from 26% to 2%) to the annual gross remuneration of each employee. The Group allocates the UST to three social funds (state pension fund, social and medical insurance funds), where the rate of contributions to the pension funds varies from 20% to 2% depending on the annual gross salary of each employee. The Group's contributions relating to UST are expensed in the year to which they relate. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed, except for those that would have been avoided if the expenditure to acquire the qualifying asset had not been made. To the extent that funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization is determined by applying a capitalization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization rate is the weighted average rate of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the enterprise that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining the qualifying asset. Qualifying borrowing costs are capitalized with the relevant qualifying asset from the date the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred until the related asset is substantially ready for its intended use. Capitalized borrowing costs are subsequently charged to the statement of income in the period over which the asset is depreciated. Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Rubles at the exchange rate as of the transaction date. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Rubles at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, or on reporting the Group's monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recorded in the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recorded as foreign currency exchange gains or losses in the period in which they arise. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-23 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) As at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the rates of exchange used for translating foreign currency balances were (in Russian Rubles for one unit of foreign currency): 2007 2006 2005 US Dollar 24.55 26.33 28.78 Japanese Yen (100) 21.84 22.16 24.53 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 38.75 39.58 41.13 EURO 35.93 34.70 34.18 Source: the Central Bank of Russia Dividends Dividends are recognized when the shareholder's right to receive the payment is established. Dividends in respect of the period covered by the financial statements that are proposed or declared after the balance sheet date but before approval of the financial statements are not recognized as a liability at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date. The amount of dividends declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements were authorized for issue is disclosed in Note 33. Minority interest Minority interest includes that part of the net results of operations and of net assets of subsidiaries attributable to interests which are not owned, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, by the Company. Minority interest at the balance sheet date represents the minority shareholders' portion of the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary at the acquisition date, and the minority's portion of movements in net assets since the date of the combination. The excess, and any further losses applicable to the minority, are charged against the majority interest, except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation to, and is able to, compensate for the losses. If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, the majority interest holder is allocated all such profits until the minority's interest holder share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered. If a subsidiary or an associate has outstanding cumulative preferred shares which are held outside the Group, the Company computes its share of profits or losses after adjusting for the preferred dividends, whether or not the dividends have been declared. The difference between consideration paid and the carrying values of net assets attributable to minority interests acquired was recognized directly in equity. Earnings per share IAS 33, as revised, requires the application of the "two-class method" to determine earnings applicable to ordinary shareholders, the amount of which is used as a nominator to calculate earnings per ordinary share. The application of the "two-class method" requires that the profit or loss after The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-24 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) deducting preferred dividends is allocated to ordinary shares and other participating equity instruments to the extent that each instrument shares in earnings as if all of the profit or loss for the period had been distributed. The total profit or loss allocated to each class of equity instrument is determined by adding together the amount allocated for dividends and the amount allocated for a participation feature. Segment information Effective December 1, 2003, the Group determined the primary segment reporting format to be business segments and the Group operates in one business segment for the provision of telecommunication services. This reportable segment was identified based on the organizational structure of the Group and types of activities the Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in. IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations not yet effective The Group has not applied the following IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective: •IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised); •IAS 23 Borrowing Costs (Revised); •IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Revised); •IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (Revised); •IFRS 3 Business Combinations (Revised); •IFRS 8 Operating Segments; •IFRIC 11 IFRS 2—Group and Treasury Shares Transactions; •IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements; •IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes; •IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. The revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The changes require information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and to introduce a statement of comprehensive income. The revised standard gives preparers of financial statements the option of presenting items of income and expense and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income). The Group is still evaluating whether it will have one or two statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-25 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) One more amendment to IAS 1 requires disclosure of certain information relating to puttable financial instruments classified as equity. The Group does not expect this amendment to impact the financial statements of the Group. Revised IAS 27 was issued in January 2008 and become effective on or after July 2009. It requires that a change in ownership interest of a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction. Therefore, such a change will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give raise to gain or loss. Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as loss of control of a subsidiary. The changes introduced by IAS 27 must be applied prospectively and will affect future acquisitions and transactions with minority interests. The principal change to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is to eliminate previously available option to recognize all borrowing costs as expense when incurred and will have no impact on the Group's financial statements because it has always been the Group's accounting policy to capitalize borrowing costs incurred on qualifying assets. The provisions of revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs are effective for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. Amendment to IAS 32 becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. It requires certain puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation to be classified as equity if certain criteria are met. The Group does not expect this amendment to impact the financial statements of the Group. IFRS 3 introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations that will impact the amount of goodwill recognized, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results. The changes introduced by IFRS 3 will be effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009. They must be applied prospectively and will affect future acquisitions and transactions with minority interests. IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosure of information about the Group's operating segments and replaces the requirements to determine primary (business) and secondary (geographical) reporting segments of the Group. The Standard is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. The Group has only one operating segment. There is no impact of IFRS 8 Operating Segments on the Group's results of operations and financial position. IFRIC No. 11 IFRS 2—Group and Treasury Shares Transactions addresses the issues whether certain transactions should be accounted for as equity-settled or as cash-settled under the requirements of IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Shares Transactions, and concerns the accounting treatment for share-based payment arrangements that involve two or more entities within the same group. An entity shall apply this interpretation for annual periods beginning on or after March 1, 2007. The Group expects that this Interpretation will have no impact the on the Group's results of operations and financial positions. IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements applies to service concession operators. Service concession operators are government or the public sector entities which grant contracts for supply of public services to private operators. This interpretation explains how to account for the obligations The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-26 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) undertaken and rights received in service concession arrangements. The interpretation shall be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2008. As the Company and its subsidiaries are not service concession operators, this Interpretation will have no impact on the Group's results of operations and financial position. IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes was issued in June 2007 and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008. This Interpretation requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted and therefore part of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits and deferred over the period that the award credits are fulfilled. The Group is now considering whether their arrangements with customers include terms which potentially may be subject to the requirements of this Interpretation. The adoption of the Interpretation may lead to deferral of some revenues. The Group is in the process of determining the effect of adoption of the Interpretation on the Group's results of operations and financial position. IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction was issued in July 2007 and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008. This Interpretation provides guidance on how to assess the limit on the amount of surplus in a defined benefit scheme that can be recognized as an asset under IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The Group expects that this Interpretation will have no impact on the Group's results of operations and financial positions as all current defined benefit plans are unfunded. 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The Group did not make any acquisitions during 2007. However, the Group acquired two subsidiaries in 2006. ZAO Globus-Telecom On April 3, 2006 the Group in a linked transaction acquired 95% shares of ZAO Globus-Telecom, of which 60% was acquired from ZAO Alsean-N for 666, 15% was acquired from OAO RTC-Leasing for 155 and 20% was acquired through purchase of 100% share in OOO Telecomcenter for 281. Costs directly attributable to the business combination amounted to 21 and consist of payments for legal and consulting services. The main activity of ZAO Globus-Telecom is provision of telecommunication services, including provision of local telecommunication services, data transmission services, rent of channels, to governmental, corporate and individual customers in Moscow and other regions throughout Russia. The purchase of ZAO Globus-Telecom was aimed to strengthen competitive position of the Group in the retail market by increasing its share of the Moscow corporate market and expanding the range of services provided to end-customers. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-27 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) The results of operations and financial position of ZAO Globus-Telecom were consolidated by the Group beginning from April 3, 2006. The following table summarizes the fair values of identifiable net assets of ZAO Globus-Telecom acquired as at the acquisition date: April 3, 2006 Property, plant and equipment 171 Intangible assets Number capacity 326 Contract-based intangible assets 147 Computer software 27 Inventories 2 Trade and other accounts receivable 88 Cash 12 Other current assets 53 Deferred tax liability (98 ) Long-term accounts payable (49 ) Short-term debt (51 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (167 ) Other current liabilities (17 ) Fair value of net assets 444 Less: minority interest (5.1%) (23 ) Group's share of the fair value of net assets 421 Consideration paid 1,123 Goodwill 702 The disclosure of carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of ZAO Globus-Telecom in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the business combination, is impracticable as ZAO Globus-Telecom had not been an IFRS reporter. From the date of acquisition till December 31, 2006, ZAO Globus-Telecom has contributed 6 to the increase of the net profit of the Group for 2006. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2006, the profit of the Group would have been 1,447 and revenue would have been 61,652. ZAO Zebra Telecom On June 13, 2006, the Group acquired 100% shares of ZAO Zebra Telecom from Starford Investments Company Ltd. for 374 in cash. The main activity of ZAO Zebra Telecom is provision of local telecommunication services and Internet services mostly in Moscow to individual customers. The purchase of ZAO Zebra Telecom was aimed to increase diversification of activities of the Group and to develop the activities related to sale of prepaid telephone cards. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-28 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) The results of operations and financial position of ZAO Zebra Telecom were consolidated by the Group beginning from June 13, 2006. The following table summarizes the fair values of net assets acquired as at the acquisition date: June 13, 2006 Property, plant and equipment 42 Intangible assets Trademarks 197 Contract-based intangible assets 3 Number capacity 1 Computer software 4 Inventories 10 Trade and other accounts receivable 35 Cash 1 Other current assets 17 Deferred tax liability (29 ) Short-term debt (49 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (95 ) Fair value of net assets 137 Consideration paid 374 Goodwill 237 The disclosure of carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of ZAO Zebra Telecom in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the business combination, is impracticable as ZAO Zebra Telecom had not been an IFRS reporter. From the date of obtaining control till December 31, 2006 ZAO Zebra Telecom has contributed 13 to the decrease of the net profit of the Group for 2006. If the control was obtained at the beginning of the year, the profit of the Group would have been 1,417 and revenue would have been 61,741. ZAO GlobalTel The Group owns 51% of the ordinary shares of ZAO GlobalTel, a Russian closed joint stock company since inception of ZAO GlobalTel. ZAO GlobalTel was created in 1996 to provide access to a US-based global mobile satellite telephone network. Since the time of its launch, the global satellite network has experienced technical problems and low subscriber interest, as the result of which ZAO GlobalTel has only recently developed its operations beyond the development stage. The US owner of the satellite network also owns the remaining 49 per cent of ZAO GlobalTel. The charter of ZAO GlobalTel, its by-laws and the way ZAO GlobalTel historically conducted its operations provided for substantive participation of both shareholders in the economic activities of ZAO GlobalTel. The minority shareholder had effective veto rights that would prevent the Group from causing ZAO The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-29 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) GlobalTel to take an action that is significant in the ordinary course of its business. Because effective control of ZAO GlobalTel did not rest with the Group, management accounted for the investment in ZAO GlobalTel under the equity method. The Group did not recognize its share in losses of ZAO GlobalTel as the accumulated share in losses of ZAO GlobalTel exceeded the investment of the Group in ZAO GlobalTel. From the date of acquisition till December 31, 2005 ZAO GlobalTel has contributed 37 to the reduction of the net profit of the Group. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the profit for the Group would have been 976 and revenue would have been 41,178. Loans and other accounts receivable from ZAO GlobalTel were fully provided for as a loss from ZAO GlobalTel. Any receipts from ZAO GlobalTel in respect of the loans and receivable were recognized as gain from associates in the period they were received. On April 25, 2005 the shareholders' meeting of ZAO GlobalTel approved a new charter which abolished the other shareholder's veto and substantive participation rights. The Group assessed that these changes resulted in it obtaining control over ZAO GlobalTel, thus, converting it from jointly controlled entity to a subsidiary of the Group. Consequently, the results of operations and financial position of ZAO GlobalTel were consolidated in the financial statements of the Group prospectively beginning from April 25, 2005. The results of operations and financial position of ZAO GlobalTel were consolidated by the Group beginning from April 25, 2005. Upon obtaining control on that date, the accumulated losses were recognized in retained earnings. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-30 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The net book value of property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows: Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2007 24,329 103,039 25,129 8,293 160,790 Additions — — — 7,144 7,144 Disposals (1,070 ) (9,782 ) (1,620 ) (71 ) (12,543 ) Transfer 489 3,708 1,683 (5,880 ) — Reclassification 360 (57 ) (303 ) — — At December 31, 2007 24,108 96,908 24,889 9,486 155,391 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2007 (18,767 ) (85,265 ) (17,436 ) (136 ) (121,604 ) Depreciation expense (1,197 ) (4,007 ) (2,150 ) — (7,354 ) Disposals 967 9,640 1,417 23 12,047 Reclassification (5 ) 25 (20 ) — — At December 31, 2007 (19,002 ) (79,607 ) (18,189 ) (113 ) (116,911 ) Net book value at December 31, 2007 5,106 17,301 6,700 9,373 38,480 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-31 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2006 26,143 112,816 24,307 6,789 170,055 Additions — — — 7,706 7,706 Additions with acquired subsidiaries — 157 31 25 213 Disposals (2,022 ) (13,313 ) (1,801 ) (48 ) (17,184 ) Transfer 208 3,379 2,592 (6,179 ) — At December 31, 2006 24,329 103,039 25,129 8,293 160,790 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2006 (18,449 ) (93,659 ) (17,183 ) (136 ) (129,427 ) Depreciation expense (1,805 ) (4,674 ) (1,919 ) — (8,398 ) Disposals 1,487 13,068 1,666 — 16,221 At December 31, 2006 (18,767 ) (85,265 ) (17,436 ) (136 ) (121,604 ) Net book value at December 31, 2006 5,562 17,774 7,693 8,157 39,186 Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2005 23,039 124,724 24,597 4,313 176,673 Additions — — — 7,944 7,944 Additions with acquired subsidiaries — 328 28 79 435 Disposals (1,076 ) (11,699 ) (2,214 ) (8 ) (14,997 ) Transfer 228 1,886 3,425 (5,539 ) — Reclassification 3,952 (2,423 ) (1,529 ) — — At December 31, 2005 26,143 112,816 24,307 6,789 170,055 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2005 (15,774 ) (97,071 ) (17,841 ) — (130,686 ) Depreciation expense (757 ) (4,761 ) (1,618 ) — (7,136 ) Impairment losses (1,112 ) (2,687 ) (1,026 ) (136 ) (4,961 ) Disposals 700 10,632 2,024 — 13,356 Reclassification (1,506 ) 228 1,278 — At December 31, 2005 (18,449 ) (93,659 ) (17,183 ) (136 ) (129,427 ) Net book value at December 31, 2005 7,694 19,157 7,124 6,653 40,628 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-32 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) As of December 31, 2007 the balance of construction in progress includes advances given to suppliers of property, plant and equipment in amount of 4,278 (2006: 2,508, 2005: 1,954). At December 31, 2007 the cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment was 69,222 (2006: 68,212, 2005: 51,777). Interest capitalization Interest amounting to 239, 273 and 118 was capitalized in property, plant and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization is 9.1%, 7.8% and 5.4%, respectively. Pledged property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 2,097, 3,240, and 3,837 was pledged in relation to loan agreements entered into by the Group as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Included in pledged property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is also the Satellite Gateway equipment with a carrying value of 102, 154 and 206, respectively, pledged in connection with vendor financing received from Globalstar L.P. (minority shareholder of ZAO GlobalTel). Currently, ZAO GlobalTel is in default on this vendor financing (see also Note 17). Impairment of property, plant and equipment As discussed in detail in Note 3, as part of the regulatory reform and restructuring of the national telecommunications sector aimed to facilitate competition and make the industry more attractive for investors, in 2005 the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications issued a number of new rules and regulations that resulted in change of the Group's status as a monopoly supplier of long distance and international communications effective January 1, 2006. As of December 31, 2005 the Group performed the assessment of the impact of the new rules and regulations on its business and results of operations that resulted in a 4,970 impairment loss recognized in the statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2005 related to write-down of certain property, plant and equipment of 4,961 and goodwill of 9 to their recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment was based on value in use and was determined at the cash-generating unit level. The cash-generating unit consisted of the Company and its subsidiaries: ZAO Westelcom and MTs NTT. Impairment analysis was performed based on the value in use as fair value less cost to sell cannot be determined reliably. In determining value in use for the cash-generating unit, the cash flows were discounted at a rate of 16.65% on a pre-tax basis and cash flows beyond the 5-year period were extrapolated using a 5% growth rate. In 2007 the Company has changed the presentation of impairment loss recognized in 1998 in the financial statement which was previously reported as a reduction of the cost of property, plant and equipment, to make it consistent with presentation of impairment loss recognized in 2005 as required by IFRS. The change in presentation affects disclosure and does not affect the numbers reported previously either in the balance sheet or in the statements of income or other statements. The effect of The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-33 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) this change on the disclosure of information on property, plant and equipment for comparative periods is represented below. As previously reported As currently reported Difference Cost at January 1, 2006 Buildings 25,632 26,143 511 Cable and transmission 111,551 112,816 1,265 Other 24,190 24,307 117 CIP 6,789 6,789 — Total 168,162 170,055 1,893 Accumulated depreciation at January 1, 2006 Buildings (17,938 ) (18,449 ) (511 ) Cable and transmission (92,394 ) (93,659 ) (1,265 ) Other (17,066 ) (17,183 ) (117 ) CIP (136 ) (136 ) — Total (127,534 ) (129,427 ) (1,893 ) Net book value at January 1, 2006 Buildings 7,694 7,694 — Cable and transmission 19,157 19,157 — Other 7,124 7,124 — CIP 6,653 6,653 — Total 40,628 40,628 — Cost at January 1, 2007 Buildings 23,849 24,329 480 Cable and transmission 101,916 103,039 1,123 Other 25,026 25,129 103 CIP 8,293 8,293 — Total 159,084 160,790 1,706 Accumulated depreciation at January 1, 2007 Buildings (18,287 ) (18,767 ) (480 ) Cable and transmission (84,142 ) (85,265 ) (1,123 ) Other (17,333 ) (17,436 ) (103 ) CIP (136 ) (136 ) — Total (119,898 ) (121,604 ) (1,706 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-34 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) Net book value at January 1, 2007 Buildings 5,562 5,562 — Cable and transmission 17,774 17,774 — Other 7,693 7,693 — CIP 8,157 8,157 — Total 39,186 39,186 — 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The net book value of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows: Goodwill Number capacity Trademarks Computer software Other Total Cost At January 1, 2007 948 353 197 1,176 150 2,824 Additions — 1 — 259 220 480 At December 31, 2007 948 354 197 1,435 370 3,304 Accumulated Amortization and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2007 (9 ) — — (13 ) (7 ) (29 ) Impairment losses (237 ) — (34 ) — — (271 ) Amortization expense — — — (251 ) (8 ) (259 ) At December 31, 2007 (246 ) — (34 ) (264 ) (15 ) (559 ) Net book value at December 31, 2007 702 354 163 1,171 355 2,745 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-35 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) Goodwill Number capacity Trademarks Computer software Other Total Cost At January 1, 2006 9 — — — — 9 Additions — 26 — 1,145 — 1,171 Additions with acquired subsidiaries 939 327 197 31 150 1,644 At December 31, 2006 948 353 197 1,176 150 2,824 Accumulated Amortization and Impairment At January 1, 2006 (9 ) — — — — (9 ) Amortization expense — — — (13 ) (7 ) (20 ) At December 31, 2006 (9 ) — — (13 ) (7 ) (29 ) Net book value at December 31, 2006 939 353 197 1,163 143 2,795 The Other intangibles include a prepayment in amount of 151 related to certain rights to use. The intangible assets recognized separately as a result of acquisition of ZAO Globus-Telecom and ZAO Zebra Telecom (refer to Note 5) represent resources from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group, and include the following classes: •number capacity, •trademarks, •computer software The owned number capacity and trademarks are intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and are not amortized. Both assets have no legal restrictions on the term of their use and the Group can derive economic benefits from their use during indefinite term. These assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication that the intangible assets may be impaired. The computer software includes internally generated and acquired intangible assets and has estimated useful lives from 1 to 10 years. Interest amounting to 5, 76 and 0 was capitalized primarily in computer software for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The goodwill recognized is attributed to the acquisitions of ZAO Globus-Telecom and ZAO Zebra Telecom (refer to Note 5). ZAO Globus-Telecom's telecommunication service was identified as separate cash-generating unit with goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets acquired through business combination allocated to it. The recoverable amount of ZAO Globus-Telecom's telecommunication service which is higher than its carrying amount at the reporting date has been determined based on value in use calculation using cash flow projection from financial budget approved by senior management for 2008 and extrapolated for the next four-year period, cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using nil growth rate. The The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-36 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projection is 13.7% (2006: 10.6%). The gross margin was based on a range of 58% - 60%. ZAO Zebra Telecom was identified as separate cash-generating unit at its acquisition date in June 2006 with goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets allocated thereto. In the last half of 2007, the Group determined that there were indications of impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets related to ZAO Zebra Telecom due to a decline in market conditions for their services. Therefore, the Group compared the recoverable amount of ZAO Zebra Telecom with its carrying amount and recognized an impairment loss of 271, of which 237 was allocated to goodwill and 34 was allocated to the respective trademark which is an indefinite lived intangible asset. Consequently, goodwill was fully written off in 2007. Concurrently, as a result of the decline in market conditions, the Group decided to change the business model where ZAO Zebra Telecom will provide termination services to the Group. This change in business model will result in ZAO Zebra Telecom producing a significant amount of internally generated cash inflows from the provision of the termination services using ZAO Zebra Telecom's zone network. Thus, ZAO Zebra Telecom ceased to be separate cash-generating unit at that time. The recoverable amount of ZAO Zebra Telecom also has been determined based on its value in use calculated using the cash flow projection from financial budget approved by senior management for 2008 and extrapolated for the next four-year period, cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using nil growth rate. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 15.1% (2006: 14.7%). The gross margin was based on a range of 41%—44%. The carrying amount of goodwill, the number capacity and trademarks as of December 31, 2007 allocated to each of the cash-generating units is as follows: ZAO Globus-Telecom Rostelecom Total Goodwill 702 — 702 Number capacity 353 1 354 Trademarks — 163 163 Net book value at December 31, 2007 1,055 164 1,219 Rostelecom The recoverable amount of the Rostelecom unit to which indefinite lived intangible assets from ZAO Zebra Telecom acquisition are allocated has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by senior management for 2008 and extrapolated for the next four-year period, cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using nil growth rate . The discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 14.6%. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006 the carrying amounts of ZAO Globus-Telecom and Rostelecom units were less than their recoverable amounts, thus no impairment loss was recognized in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-37 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) The calculation of value in use for both ZAO Globus-Telecom and ZAO Zebra Telecom are most sensitive to the gross margin, discount rate and market share assumption. Gross margin is based on actual results for 2007. Discount rates reflect management's estimate of the risks specific to the units. This is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future investment proposals. Market share assumptions are important because management assess how the unit's position, relative to its competitors, might change over the budget period. 8. SUBSIDIARIES These consolidated financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of operations of Rostelecom and the following of its subsidiaries, all registered in the Russian Federation: Effective share of the Group as of December 31, Subsidiary Main activity 2007 2006 2005 ZAO MTs NTT Fixed line telecommunication services 100 % 100 % 100 % ZAO Westelcom Leasing of telecommunication equipment 100 % 100 % 100 % ZAO Zebra Telecom (see Note 5) Local telecommunication services and Internet services 100 % 100 % — ZAO Globus-Telecom (see Note 5) Local telecommunication services 94.9 % 94.9 % — ZAO GlobalTel (see Note 5) Satellite telecommunications 51 % 51 % 51 % ZAO SK Kostars Insurance services 86.7 % 86.7 % 60 % ZAO Incom Local telecommunication services 84.8 % 54.4 % 54.4 % DP Pansionat Malakhit Recreational services 100 % 100 % 100 % OAO InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom Local telecommunication services 100 % 74 % 74 % In March 2007, the Group acquired outstanding minority interest of 26% in OAO InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom, which is the subsidiary of ZAO Westelcom, for the cash payment of 25. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005 ZAO Westelcom's interest in OAO InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom was 74%. In 2005 and 2006 the latter had negative net assets and minority interest in accumulated loss was allocated against the Group's interest. The results of operations and financial position of OAO InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom were consolidated by the Group in the accompanying financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-38 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 9. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Investments in associates as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Associate Main activity Voting share capital, % 2007 Carrying amount 2006 Carrying amount 2005 Carrying amount OAO RTComm.RU Internet services 31 317 217 222 OAO MMTS-9 Telecommunication services 49 114 76 73 OAO Svyazintek Implementation of integrated billing systems 19 60 36 27 Other Various 3 1 9 Total investments in associates 494 330 331 The Group's share in OAO Svyazintek is 19%. However, the Group has the right to nominate two of eleven directors to the Board of OAO Svyazintek while each of other shareholders has only one director. This right gives to the Group an opportunity to have significant influence on decision-making process of OAO Svyazintek. The Group accounts its interest in OAO Svyazintek through equity method. Summarized financial information as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and for the years then ended of the associates disclosed above is presented below: Aggregate amounts 2007 2006 2005 Assets 3,624 3,778 1,353 Liabilities 2,037 2,679 449 Revenue 8,539 5,729 3,401 Net income 444 255 226 All associates are registered in the Russian Federation. In March 2007, the Group acquired 53.72% of preferred shares of OAO MMTS-9 for a cash payment of 17. This acquisition resulted in effective ownership of 50.29%, however, these shares do not have voting rights. Therefore, the acquisition did not result in obtaining control over OAO MMTS-9. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Rostelecom had significant influence on OAO RTComm.RU through ownership of 31.09% of voting shares of OAO RTComm.RU which main activity is Internet access services to enterprises and individuals. In 2008 the Group plans to obtain control over OAO RTComm.RU by acquiring additional 68% equity interest. For more details refer to Note 33. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-39 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 9. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (Continued) In April 2005, according to the changed charter of ZAO GlobalTel, the Group obtained control over ZAO GlobalTel and consolidated the latter in the financial statements as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 (refer to Note 5). 10. LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS Long-term investments are available-for-sale investments Rbl denominated and as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 comprised the following: 2007 2006 2005 Investment in Golden Telecom 10,945 4,963 3,017 Investment in OAO Sberbank of Russia 826 724 298 Other available-for-sale investments 76 41 28 Total long-term investments 11,847 5,728 3,343 Investments in OAO Sberbank of Russia stated at fair value determined based on Russian Trade System (RTS) closing bid price at the last trading date. Prior to December 2005, investment into Golden Telecom was accounted for using equity method as the Group exercised significant influence over the financial and operating policies of Golden Telecom through representation on its Board of Directors since in accordance with the Shareholders' Agreement the Group had the right to appoint 2 out of 10 members to the Board of Directors of Golden Telecom while other shareholders appointed 1-3 Directors to the Board. In December 2005, provisions in the Shareholders' Agreement that gave to the Group the right to appoint two directors to the Board of Golden Telecom lapsed and effective December 1, 2005, the Group's remaining rights are limited to maintaining membership of less than two directors in the Board of Golden Telecom, depending on the current effective voting power in the latter. The above change brought to cessation the Group's significant influence over Golden Telecom effective December 1, 2005. Consequently, effective December 1, 2005, the Group discontinued applying equity method of accounting for its investment in Golden Telecom and reclassified this investment as an available-for-sale financial asset with initial cost equal to carrying value of equity investment in Golden Telecom at the date of the reclassification. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 investment in Golden Telecom is measured at its fair value determined based on NASDAQ closing bid price at the last trading day. The Group did not make any material disposals of its investments in 2007. During 2006 the Group sold its interests in ZAO Telecross, OOO RTC-Sibir, OOO Artelecom-Service, OAO A-Svyaz, ZAO Rostelecomimport and ZAO AKB Promsvyazbank with a carrying value of 11 for a cash payment of 56. In February 2008 the Group sold its interest in Golden Telecom, Inc at the amount of USD 464 million (11,385 at the exchange rate as of that date). For additional information refer to Note 33. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-40 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 11. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 comprised the following: 2007 2006 2005 Local operators 1,067 1,679 1,849 Subscribers 5,056 4,519 1,083 Foreign operators 1,033 696 696 Other 1,751 1,284 596 Less: allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable (1,994 ) (1,132 ) (898 ) Trade accounts receivable, net 6,913 7,046 3,326 Prepayments 503 418 379 Prepaid taxes other than on income 791 1,092 1,210 Other accounts receivable 349 721 790 Less: allowance for doubtful other accounts receivable (127 ) (456 ) (473 ) Other accounts receivable, net 1,516 1,775 1,906 Total accounts receivable 8,429 8,821 5,232 The net accounts receivable balance is not past due. The following table summarizes accounts receivables denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 USD 716 517 347 SDR (special drawing right) 269 140 325 Other currencies 48 39 24 Accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies, gross 1,033 696 696 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts receivable (339 ) (293 ) (237 ) Accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies, net 694 403 459 As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the carrying value of trade accounts receivable approximated their fair value. The following table summarizes the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Balance, beginning of year 1,594 1,371 2,284 Provision/(recovery) for doubtful accounts receivable 815 389 (140 ) Accounts receivable written-off (222 ) (166 ) (773 ) Balance, end of year 2,187 1,594 1,371 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-41 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 11. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (Continued) As of December 31, 2007 balance of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable decreased long-term accounts receivable and short-term accounts receivable by 66 and 2,121, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 balance of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable decreased long-term accounts receivable and short-term accounts receivable by 6 and 1,588, respectively. Long-term accounts receivable are included in other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 12. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Short-term investments include investments available-for-sale, which are stated at fair value, and loans and receivables which are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Short-term investments comprised the following as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Bills of exchange 343 542 5,312 Short-term deposits and deposit certificates 6,547 7,916 6,878 Other 30 38 48 Total short-term investments 6,920 8,496 12,238 Short-term investments include amounts totaling to 1,294 (2006: 2,182, 2005: 2,475) which are denominated in US dollars as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Bills of exchange and short-term deposits and deposit certificates are classified as loans and receivables. The bills of exchange bear interest in the range from 7% to 10% and are denominated in Rubles, as well as in foreign currencies. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 0% (2006: 26%, 2005: 33%) of the Group's total bills of exchange are denominated in foreign currencies, represented by US dollars. 13. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 included cash on hand and at bank accounts and short-term deposits and bills of exchange with original maturities of less than three months as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Cash at bank—Rubles 3,106 1,147 2,165 Cash at bank—Foreign currencies 105 93 58 Short term deposits—Rubles 67 6 170 Short-term bills of exchange — 1,101 — Other 6 6 5 Total cash and cash equivalents 3,284 2,353 2,398 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-42 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 14. EQUITY Share capital The authorized share capital of the Company as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 comprised 1,634,026,541 ordinary shares and 242,832,000 non-redeemable preferred shares. The par value of both ordinary and preferred shares amounted to Rbl 0.0025 per share. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the issued and outstanding share capital was as follows: Number of shares Nominal value Carrying amount Ordinary Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 728,696,320 1.822 75 Preferred Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 242,831,469 0.607 25 Total 971,527,789 2.429 100 There were no transactions with the Company's own shares during 2007, 2006 and 2005. The Board of Directors of Rostelecom is authorized under its Charter to issue additional ordinary shares up to the total of the authorized share capital without further approval of shareholders. The nominal share capital of the Company recorded on its incorporation has been indexed, to account for the effects of inflation from that date through December 31, 2002. The share capital in the Russian statutory accounts at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to 2,428,819 nominal (uninflated) Rubles. Ordinary shares carry voting rights with no guarantee of dividends. Preferred shares have priority over ordinary shares in the event of liquidation but carry no voting rights except on resolutions regarding liquidation or reorganization of the Company, changes to dividend levels of preferred shares, or the issuance of additional preferred stock. Such resolutions require two-thirds approval of preferred shareholders. The preferred shares have no rights of redemption or conversion. Preferred shares carry dividends amounting to the higher of 10% of the net income after taxation of the Company as reported in the Russian statutory accounts divided by the number of preferred shares and the dividends paid on one ordinary share. If the holders of preferred shares receive dividends of less than 10% of the net income after taxation as reported in the Russian statutory accounts, no dividends to the holders of ordinary shares are declared. Owners of preferred shares have the right to participate in and vote on all issues within the competence of shareholders' general meetings following the annual shareholders' general meeting at which a decision not to pay (or to pay partly) dividends on preferred shares has been taken. In case of liquidation, the property remaining after settlement with creditors, payment of preferred dividends and redemption of the par value of preferred shares is distributed among preferred and ordinary shareholders proportionately to number of owned shares. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-43 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 14. EQUITY (Continued) Accordingly, the Company's preferred shares are considered participating equity instruments for the purpose of earnings per share calculations (refer to Note 24). Distributable earnings of all entities included in the Group are limited to their respective retained earnings, as mandated by statutory accounting rules. Statutory retained earnings of the Company as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to 43,645, 35,171 and 28,972, respectively. Reserve capital In accordance with the Company's Charter, Rostelecom has to maintain a reserve fund through a mandatory annual transfer of at least 5% of its statutory net profits up to the maximum amount of 15% of its statutory share capital. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 the statutory reserve fund amounted to 364,323 nominal (uninflated) Rubles. These amounts are prohibited for distribution by current Russian legislation except for some limited cases. Dividends Dividends declared to holders of preferred and ordinary shares for the years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were accrued in the following years: 2007 2006 2005 Dividend—preferred shares 718 903 722 Dividend—ordinary shares 1,078 1,138 1,064 Total dividends 1,796 2,041 1,786 Rbl Rbl Rbl Dividend per preferred share 2.96 3.72 2.97 Dividend per ordinary share 1.48 1.56 1.46 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-44 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 15. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, PROVISIONS AND ACCRUED EXPENSES Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses consisted of the following as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Trade accounts payable 4,601 6,100 3,064 Short-term portion of pension obligations (refer to Note 23) 55 63 49 Short-term portion of site restoration provisions 41 26 8 Compensation related accruals 1,324 741 540 Other accrued expenses 1,349 375 339 Dividends payable 75 67 56 Current accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 7,445 7,372 4,056 Long-term portion of pension obligations (refer to Note 23) 98 112 123 Long-term portion of site restoration provisions 57 78 17 Long-term advances received 59 69 87 Other long-term accounts payable 55 67 151 Non-current accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 269 326 378 Total accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 7,714 7,698 4,434 The following table summarizes trade accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 USD 463 932 696 SDR 181 314 684 Other currencies 241 177 215 Accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies 885 1,423 1,595 Site restoration provisions represent present value of the expenditures the Company expects to incur in connection with phasing out of analog trunk lines during 2007-2010 in accordance with the formalized plan of the Company (refer also to Note 6). The discount rate of 14.50% was used based on the weighted average cost of capital. As of December 31, 2007 total amounts of site restoration provisions equal to 98 (2006: 104; 2005: 25), of which 41 (2006: 26; 2005: 8) are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses and 57 (2006: 78; 2005: 17) are included in non-current accounts payable in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-45 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 16. FINANCE LEASE PAYABLE Leased assets as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, where the Group is a lessee of IRU, plants and machinery under finance lease agreements, comprised of the following: 2007 2006 2005 Cost—capitalized finance leases 572 523 430 Impairment loss and accumulated depreciation (160 ) (108 ) (54 ) Net book value 412 415 376 In April 2005, the Group entered into an IRU finance lease agreement for use a portion of the network capacity of a terrestrial optical fiber cables. The lease agreement is non-cancellable for the period of 15 years, which approximates the remaining useful life of the above optical fibers. Effective interest rate of the lease is 7.21% p.a. Lease payments are denominated in US Dollars. Also the Group is involved into a finance lease agreement for use of a digital telecommunication station over its estimated remaining useful life of 7 years. Effective interest rate of the lease is 11.7% p.a. Lease payments are denominated in Rubles. In 2007, the Group entered into a number of minor finance lease agreements for purchase of telecommunication equipment and vehicles for an average period of 3 years. Effective interest rate of these leases is 10.3% p.a. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-46 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 16. FINANCE LEASE PAYABLE (Continued) Future minimum lease payments together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Finance lease liabilities—minimum lease payments Current portion of finance lease liability 135 111 53 Between one to two years 106 83 44 Between two to three years 54 93 44 Between three to four years 43 43 44 Between four to five years 43 43 44 Over five years 307 349 438 Total minimum lease payments 688 722 667 Less interest (184 ) (217 ) (246 ) Present value of minimum lease payments 504 505 421 Present value of minimum lease payments Not later than 1 year 108 78 52 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 157 163 144 Later than 5 years 239 264 225 Total non-current lease payable 396 427 369 Total lease payable 504 505 421 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under the finance lease contracts for 2007 amounted to 52 (2006: 54; 2005: 10; refer to Note 6). Finance charges for the year ended December 31, 2007 amounted to 82 (2006: 44; 2005: 14) and included in interest expense in the consolidated statement of income. 17. VENDOR FINANCING PAYABLE Vendor financing payable includes the following as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Globalstar L.P. 1,246 1,249 1,289 IBM Corporation — — 388 Peter Service 391 391 — Vendor financing payable—current portion 1,637 1,640 1,677 Peter Service — 362 — Vendor financing payable—non-current portion — 362 — Total vendor financing payable 1,637 2,002 1,677 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-47 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 17. VENDOR FINANCING PAYABLE (Continued) As of December 31, 2007, the Group had the following outstanding vendor financing payable: •1,246 (US$ 51 million) payable by ZAO GlobalTel to Globalstar L.P., which is the minority shareholder of ZAO GlobalTel, for the purchase of three gateways and associated equipment and services (refer Note 6). Globalstar L.P. has a lien over this equipment until the liability is fully paid. ZAO GlobalTel is in default in respect of payments in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and has not obtained a waiver from Globalstar L.P. As a result, the whole balance of 1,008 (2006: 1,082, 2005: 1,182) (US$ 41 million) is classified as current in these consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Penalty interest in amount of 238, 167 and 107, accrued for each day of delay at the rate of 10% p.a., is included in vendor financing payable in these balance sheets as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006 Loral, which is the legal successor of Globalstar L.P., brought an action against ZAO GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of 1,246. Management believes that if immediate repayment of the defaulted vendor financing and loans is demanded, it would not have a material adverse effect on the Group's results of operations, financial position and operating plans. •391 payable by the Company to ZAO Peter-Service for the purchase of billing system. The liability is repayable in equal quarterly installments up to December 31, 2008. Notes payable bear an interest of 7.73% p.a. 18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS Long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: Maturity 2007 2006 2005 Current portion of interest bearing loans 2,585 3,005 851 Between one to two years 136 198 621 Between two to three years 36 63 587 Between three to four years — 37 544 Between four to five years — — 520 Over five years — — 960 Non-current portion of interest bearing loans 172 298 3,232 Total interest bearing loans 2,757 3,303 4,083 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-48 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS (Continued) As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, interest bearing loans, which are mostly denominated in foreign currencies, were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 US Dollars (US$) 2,397 3,055 3,812 Japanese Yen (JPY) — 32 103 EURO 77 123 168 Foreign currency denominated loans 2,474 3,210 4,083 Russian Ruble denominated loans 283 93 — Total interest bearing loans 2,757 3,303 4,083 As of December 31, 2007, the Group entered in loan agreements with 9 banks and other financial institutions. The loans denominated in US Dollars are made at fixed rates of 4 - 6.5% and floating rates of LIBOR + 0.5 - 3.25%. The Russian Rouble denominated loans are made at approximately 10% p.a. Effective interest rates of interest bearing loans approximate their nominal rates. Included in long-term loans is the amount of 2,047 on a credit agreement between Rostelecom and Vnesheconombank (VEB) entered into in December 2005. The loan is repayable annually up to the end of 2012. Under the existing credit agreement with Vnesheconombank and CSFB the Group is required to meet at the end of each quarter various financial covenants applied to the statutory financial statements of the Company, including maintaining certain level of debt to equity and debt to income ratios. As of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2007 the Group was not in compliance with some of the covenants, stipulated in the loan agreement and no waiver had been obtained from the banks. The Group received waivers from the bank only after the reporting dates (in June 2008 and in June 2007 respectively), hence the whole amount of the loan is included in current portion of long-term loans in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. The Group was in compliance with the covenants as of March 31, 2008 as well as of March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2007 and 2006. In connection with the $100 million loan from Vnesheconombank and CSFB, on June 28, 2006, the Group entered into interest rate swap agreement with CSFB. In accordance with the interest rate swap agreement each June 28 and December 28, commencing on December 28, 2006 and ending on December 28, 2012, the Group undertakes an obligation to CSFB calculated at a fixed interest rate and CSFB undertakes an obligation to the Group in the amount calculated at floating rate payable by the Group on its loan. The Group did not designate the above interest rate swap derivative as hedging instrument. Therefore, this financial instrument was classified as financial liability at fair value through profit and loss amounted to 73 (2006:15) (refer to Note 15). Fair value of the derivative is calculated by discounting of future cash flows determined by condition and payments schedule of the agreement using forward rates of similar instruments at the reporting date. The net loss of 58 related to the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap contract was included in the non-operating loss in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2007 (2006: 15). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-49 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS (Continued) 225 on a credit agreement between ZAO GlobalTel and Loral Space and Communications Corporation ("Loral"). ZAO GlobalTel is in default in respect of these loans. A penalty in the amount of 55 is included in the outstanding balance. As no waiver has been obtained from Loral, these loans are classified as current in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. The loan does not provide for any collateral. . In 2006 Loral brought an action against ZAO GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of 225. 19. INCOME TAXES The components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and the respective movements during 2007, 2006 and 2005, were as follows: Movement during 2007 recognized in December 31, 2006 Additions with acquired subsidiaries Equity Profit for the period December 31, 2007 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Accounts receivable 100 — — 204 304 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 246 — — (115 ) 131 Other 101 — — 11 112 Gross deferred tax asset 447 — — 100 547 Tax effects of future taxable items: Equity Investments 1,026 — 1,335 31 2,392 Property, plant and equipment 2,716 — — (557 ) 2,159 Other intangible assets 149 — — (34 ) 115 Gross deferred tax liability 3,891 — 1,335 (560 ) 4,666 Net deferred tax liability 3,444 — 1,335 (660 ) 4,119 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-50 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 19. INCOME TAXES (Continued) Movement during 2006 recognized in December 31, 2005 Additions with acquired subsidiaries Equity Profit for the period December 31, 2006 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Property, plant and equipment — 2 — (2 ) — Accounts receivable 171 5 — (76 ) 100 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses — 10 — 236 246 Other 27 17 — 57 101 Gross deferred tax asset 198 34 — 215 447 Tax effects of future taxable items: Investments valuation difference 449 — 570 7 1,026 Property, plant and equipment 3,718 — — (1,002 ) 2,716 Other intangible assets — 161 — (12 ) 149 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 202 — — (202 ) — Gross deferred tax liability 4,369 161 570 (1,209 ) 3,891 Net deferred tax liability 4,171 127 570 (1,424 ) 3,444 Movement during 2005 recognized in December 31, 2004 Equity Profit for the period December 31, 2005 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Investment valuation difference 34 (34 ) — — Accounts receivable 474 — (303 ) 171 Other 9 — 18 27 Gross deferred tax asset 517 (34 ) (285 ) 198 Tax effects of future taxable items: Investments valuation difference — 317 132 449 Property, plant and equipment 6,203 — (2,485 ) 3,718 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 268 — (66 ) 202 Gross deferred tax liability 6,471 317 (2,419 ) 4,369 Net deferred tax liability 5,954 351 (2,134 ) 4,171 Differences between IFRS and statutory taxation and reporting regulations give rise to temporary differences between the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities for financial reporting and profits tax purposes. The tax effect of these temporary differences is recorded at the rate of 24%. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-51 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 19. INCOME TAXES (Continued) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities relate to the income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority on the same taxable entity. The Company has not recorded deferred tax liabilities with respect to deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities as it does not intend to cause such differences to reverse in the foreseeable future. The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Current tax charge 1,854 2,411 2,829 Deferred tax benefit (660 ) (1,424 ) (2,134 ) Income tax expense 1,194 987 695 The reconciliation of the theoretical amount that would arise using the Russian statutory rate of 24% to the total actual income tax was as follows for the years ending December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Income tax expense at statutory rate (24%) 960 586 401 Change in assessment for current tax of prior periods — 2 28 Effect of share in income taxes of associates — — (156 ) Permanent differences 234 399 422 Income tax expense 1,194 987 695 Permanent differences comprise various costs that are non-deductible for Russian profits tax purposes, including depreciation of certain property, plant and equipment, certain employee costs, promotional and sponsorship expenditures, travel expenditures in excess of certain statutory allowances and other expenses and non-deductible taxable revenue from free-of-charge services. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-52 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 20. REVENUE Revenue comprised the following for the years ending December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Telephone traffic Domestic long-distance traffic 31,973 31,370 18,126 Outgoing international long-distance traffic 12,317 13,271 9,405 Incoming and transit international long-distance traffic 5,710 4,480 4,098 50,000 49,121 31,629 Rent of channels 7,725 7,116 6,045 Other revenue Television and radio transmission 448 528 574 Satellite services 699 559 548 Internet access 1,143 217 44 Intelligent network services (INS) 1,133 761 430 Interconnection services 519 597 27 Technical support services 464 364 414 Equipment maintenance services 696 537 281 Miscellaneous revenue 1,775 1,759 963 6,877 5,322 3,281 Total revenue 64,602 61,559 40,955 The Group rendered DLD services, incoming and outgoing ILD services of 10,175, 3,062 and 1,820 million minutes respectively (2006: 9,722; 2,461; 1,932; 2005: 9,347; 1,874; 1,769). Although the traffic is growing the Group is diversifying its activities through the development of other services such as Internet, INS, Satellite and Network maintenance services. As described in Note 3 above, effective January 1, 2006, as a result of regulatory reform in the telecommunication industry, new regulations and rules were put in force that changed principles of interaction between the Group, local operators and end users in providing long-distance services. The introduction of the new settlement system represents a change in business practice resulting in new accounting for changed practice. Refer to Note 3 for the summary of impact of the new settlement system on the Groups revenues and related expenses. 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Group operates in one industry segment, being the provision of domestic and international long-distance telecommunication services in the Russian Federation. The results of this segment and assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are presented in the consolidated statements of income and the consolidated balances sheets, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-53 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION (Continued) An analysis of revenue by service type is disclosed in Note 20. A geographical analysis of revenue by the country or region of the customer for the years ending December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is as follows: Russia CIS USA Western Europe Eastern Europe Others Total 2007 58,024 2,406 848 2,068 400 856 64,602 2006 56,360 2,227 475 1,515 241 741 61,559 2005 36,249 2,626 233 1,049 194 604 40,955 Substantially all of the Group assets are located within the territory of the Russian Federation. 22. ADMINISTRATION AND OTHER COSTS Administration and other costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: 2007 2006 2005 Administration costs 1,548 1,648 952 Advertising and similar costs 1,403 748 231 Office maintenance 1,903 1,543 1,287 Utilities and similar services 700 655 613 Consulting and similar services 450 312 220 Insurance 201 321 367 Other 465 326 207 Total administration and other costs 6,670 5,553 3,877 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The numbers of employees of the Group was equal to 22,534 as at December 31, 2007 (2006: 23,233, 2005: 23,634). The Group makes payments to the Government pension fund for its employees. Such contributions are included in the unified social tax ("UST") calculated by the Group using regressive scale and are charged to expense when incurred during the employee's service period. Total contributions for UST amounted to 1,426 during the year ended December 31, 2007 (2006: 1,272, 2005: 1,171). The Company participates in the private Joint Participation Program, which is a pension plan with defined contributions. To participate in the program, individuals should be full-time employees of the Company and should enter into non-state pension insurance agreement with NPF "Telecom-Soyuz", which is the successor of NPF Rostelecom-Garantiya. Total expenses of the Group under this program amounted to 9 during the year ended December 31, 2007 (2006: 6, 2005: 14) and are included in wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes in the consolidated statements of income. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-54 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Continued) The Company also operates a defined benefit pension scheme covering a large number of its employees, which requires contributions to be made to NPF Telecom-Soyuz. Under the scheme certain annuity is acquired by the Company as of the termination date of an employee if the latter satisfies certain criteria, such as seniority of 15 years in telecommunication sector, including seniority of 5 years in the Company, and retirement on pension within one month after the date an employee is entitled to pension in accordance with Russian legislation. The liabilities under this scheme are unfunded. The following table summarizes movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets for the above plan (refer to Note 15): 2007 2006 2005 Opening defined benefit obligation 277 290 258 Interest cost on benefit obligation 19 20 13 Current service cost 13 15 17 Past service cost — — 84 Actuarial losses/(gains) on obligation 8 38 (23 ) Benefits paid (78 ) (86 ) (59 ) Closing defined benefit obligation 239 277 290 Unrecognized past service cost (86 ) (102 ) (118 ) Liability recognized in balance sheet 153 175 172 Amounts recognized in wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes in the consolidated statement of income in respect of the above defined benefit plan are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Interest cost on benefit obligation 19 20 13 Current service cost 13 15 17 Amortization of past service cost 16 16 40 Actuarial losses/ (gains) on obligation 8 38 (23 ) Total net benefit expense 56 89 47 The principal assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligation for the Group's plan are shown below: 2007 2006 2005 Discount rate 7.9 % 7.9 % 7.7 % Employee turnover rate 10.9 % 10.5 % 8.4 % Expected inflation rate 6.9 % 7 % 6 % The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-55 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Continued) The amounts of experience adjustments is as follows: 2007 2006 Present value of defined benefit obligation 239 277 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 15 46 In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits in December 2004, the disclosures above are determined prospectively from the 2006 reporting period. The expected amount of benefits to be paid in 2008 is 85. 24. EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per preferred and ordinary share is presented below (earnings per share data is stated in Rubles): 2007 2006 2005 Net income attributable to equity holders of the parent 2,805 1,458 978 Preferred shares Ordinary shares Preferred shares Ordinary shares Preferred shares Ordinary shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding 242,831,469 728,696,320 242,831,469 728,696,320 242,831,469 728,696,320 Basic and diluted earnings per share, Russian Rubles 2.89 2.89 1.50 1.50 1.01 1.01 The calculation of earnings per share is based on net profit for the period divided by the weighted average number of preferred and ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Dividends are fully allocated to continuing operations. There are no potentially dilutive instruments, therefore, diluted earnings per share equal basic earnings per share. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-56 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The table below summarizes carrying amount by class of all of the Group's financial instruments: December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Classes Categories Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount Long-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 11,771 5,687 3,315 —at cost Available-for-sale 10 9 21 Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 66 32 7 Long-term receivables Loans and receivables 16 13 — Total Non-current financial assets 11,863 5,741 3,343 Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 30 21 28 —at cost Available-for-sale — — — Short-term debt investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — — — —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 6,890 8,475 12,210 Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables 6,913 7,046 3,326 Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables 222 265 317 Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables 3,284 2,353 2,398 Total Short-term financial assets 17,339 18,160 18,279 Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 172 205 3,232 Long-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — 93 — Non-current finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost 396 789 369 Non-current accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 153 179 274 Total Non-current financial liabilities 721 1,266 3,875 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-57 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 2,286 2,891 654 Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 326 289 201 Short-term finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost 1,745 1,718 1,729 Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 7,331 7,331 4,048 Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 73 15 — Total Short-term financial liabilities 11,761 12,244 6,632 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, current receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments. The fair value of long-term debt investments, long-term accounts receivables and non-current accounts payable correspond to the present values of the payments related to the assets and liabilities, taking into account the current interest rate parameters that reflect market-based changes to terms and conditions and expectations. Available for sale investments accounted for at cost include unquoted equity investments whose value cannot be measured reliably. Quoted prices are not available for these investments due to the absence of active market. It is also impossible to derive fair value using similar transaction method. Discounting cash flow method can not be applied to the investments as there are no reliably determined cash flows from holding them. The carrying value of fixed interest rate long-term debt approximates fair value as the interest rates approximate the market rates for similar instruments. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-58 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 26. GAIN/(LOSS) FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Gain/(loss) from financial instruments for 2007, 2006, 2005 are as follows: 2007 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Long-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 5,562 (1 ) —at cost Available-for-sale Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 2 (4 ) Investments in associates N/A Long-term receivables Loans and receivables (60 ) Total Long-term financial assets (58 ) 5,562 — (5 ) Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale (1 ) Short-term debt investments —at fair value Available-for-sale —at amortized cost Loans and receivables (145 ) Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables (863 ) (103 ) Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables 107 (9 ) Cash & cash equivalents Loans and receivables (9 ) Total Short-term financial assets (756 ) (1 ) — (266 ) Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost (1 ) Long-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost (3 ) Total Long-term financial liabilities — — — (4 ) Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 214 Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost (10 ) Short-term finance lease & vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost (3 ) Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 236 Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (58 ) Total Short-term financial liabilities — (58 ) — 437 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-59 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 2006 2005 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Long-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 2,372 1,012 —at cost Available-for-sale (7 ) 52 216 Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables Investments in associates N/A Long-term receivables Loans and receivables (6 ) Total Long-term financial assets (13 ) 2,372 52 — — 1,012 216 — Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 4 2 18 Short-term debt investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 7 174 —at amortized cost Loans and receivables (212 ) (105 ) Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables (408 ) (186 ) 181 5 Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables 4 (44 ) (41 ) 1 Cash & cash equivalents Loans and receivables (8 ) Total Short-term financial assets (404 ) 4 — (450 ) 140 9 192 (99 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-60 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 2006 2005 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 211 19 Long-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost Total Long-term financial liabilities — — — 211 — — — 19 Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 111 (49 ) Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 4 Short-term finance lease & vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost 12 (13 ) Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 332 10 Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss (15 ) Total Short-term financial liabilities — (15 ) — 459 — — — (52 ) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (a) The Government and OAO Svyazinvest as a shareholder As indicated in Note 1, the main shareholder of the Company is OAO Svyazinvest, which holds 50.67% of the voting capital of the Company, and its representatives comprise a majority of the Board of Directors. The Government of the Russian Federation, in turn, holds 75% less one share of the The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-61 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) voting capital of OAO Svyazinvest and, therefore, ultimately controls the Company. It is a matter of Government policy to retain a controlling stake in sectors of the economy, such as telecommunications, that it views as strategic. (b) Interest of the Government in the telecommunications sector in the Russian Federation and the protection of that interest Effective telecommunications and data transmission are of great importance to Russia for various reasons, including economic, social, strategic and national security considerations. The Government has exercised and may be expected to exercise significant influence over the operations of the telecommunications sector and consequently, the Group. The Government, acting through the Federal Tariff Service and the Federal Telecommunications Agency, has the general authority to regulate certain tariffs, and does regulate such tariffs. Except for regulation of tariffs, the telecommunication legislation requires the Group and other operators to make certain revenue-based payments to the Universal service fund, which is controlled by the Federal Telecommunications Agency. Moreover, the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Russian Federation has control over the licensing of providers of telecommunications services. (c) Transactions with the Svyazinvest Group The Group uses the regional networks of the Svyazinvest Group to terminate telephone traffic. Tariffs for services between the Group and other Svyazinvest Group companies for traffic initiation and termination are materially affected by governmental regulation as disclosed in paragraph (b) of this note. In addition, the Group contracted the Svyazinvest Group companies as the Group's regional agents for customer service, billing and collection services related to long-distance services provided by the Group. Moreover, while calculating the costs of services rendered, the Group uses appropriate resources of Svyazinvest Group companies, including billing and other information systems data. The Group also consumes design services from certain companies of the Svyazinvest Group which are included in 2007 in additions of property, plant and equipment in amount of 21 (2006: 36, 2005: 47). The Group makes certain contributions to non-for-profit organizations which are companies of the Svyazinvest Group. The Group makes contributions to the non-state pension fund which provides the Company's employees with a number of post-employment benefits (refer to Note 23). OAO Svyazinvest executes significant influence over the operations of the fund. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-62 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with the Svyazinvest Group were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 2,308 1,460 17,475 Charges by network operators—national (21,162 ) (22,598 ) (6,757 ) Administration and other costs (105 ) (71 ) (72 ) Contributions to non-for-profit organizations (included in administration and other costs) (1 ) (1 ) (125 ) Contributions in pension fund included in wages, salaries, other benefit and payroll taxes (86 ) (92 ) (167 ) Bad debt (expense)/recovery (83 ) (46 ) (23 ) Significant decrease in revenues and increase in charges by local network operators in 2006 is related to the new interconnection and settlement regulations effective January 1, 2006 (refer to Note 3 for further details). In addition, OAO Svyazinvest participates in the dividends declared by the Company, commensurate with its shareholding. The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to the Svyazinvest Group were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Accounts receivable 670 781 1,017 Allowance for doubtful receivables (129 ) (46 ) — Accounts payable (731 ) (1,677 ) (82 ) Payable to non-for-profit organizations (23 ) (24 ) (117 ) (d) Transactions with the Government Other state bodies ("Budget Organizations"), such as the Ministry of Defense and entities funded by the Government, mainly use the Group's network to carry communications traffic and to broadcast across the country. The Group also consumes some services having both production and miscellaneous nature. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-63 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with the Government were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 5,486 4,385 2,148 Charges by network operators—national (385 ) (351 ) — Administration and other costs (722 ) (821 ) (47 ) Contributions to Fund of Telecommunication History (included in administration and other costs) (51 ) (16 ) (23 ) Bad debt (expense)/recovery (51 ) — 118 The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to such organizations were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Accounts receivable 526 530 342 Allowance for doubtful receivables (106 ) (63 ) (81 ) Accounts payable (171 ) (219 ) (88 ) The Group is also involved in providing telecommunication services to a significant number of commercial entities which are directly or indirectly controlled by the Government or subsidiaries of governmentally controlled entities. The following table summarized the effect of transactions with the above entities on the consolidated financial statements of the Group: 2007 2006 2005 Share of total revenue 1.2 % 1.2 % 3.9 % Share of charges by network operators—national 4.6 % 5.1 % 5.4 % Share of accounts receivable 2.5 % 2.8 % 4.4 % Share of allowance for doubtful receivables 0.8 % 0.8 % 0.5 % Share in intangible assets 8.0 % — — Share of other non-current assets — 79.3 % — Share of trade accounts payable 1.5 % 3.8 % 0.9 % The Company deposits available cash with OAO Sberbank of Russia in which Government of the Russian Federation controls 57.6%. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 short-term deposits held in OAO Sberbank of Russia amounted to nil, nil and 1,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 cash held in OAO Sberbank of Russia amounted to 250, 641 and 1,364, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-64 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) e) Transactions with associates The Group is also involved in various telecommunication services with entities in which it has investments, including associates over which it exerts significant influence. A summary of these transactions is as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 575 556 1,347 Charges by network operators—national (118 ) (102 ) (162 ) Bad debt (expense)/ recovery (10 ) 22 (10 ) The Group also consumes design services from OAO Svyazintek which are included in 2007 in additions of property, plant and equipment in amount of 9 (2006: 442, 2005: 34). Amounts included in the consolidated balance sheets relating to the operations with these entities were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Accounts receivable 103 67 525 Allowance for doubtful receivables (38 ) (28 ) (50 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses (23 ) (18 ) (23 ) (f) Directors' remuneration In 2007, the total remuneration of the directors and management board members, represented by short-term benefits, amounted to 79 (2006: 149, 2005: 131). As of December 31, 2007 12 employees of the Company were members of the management board (2006: 11, 2005: 13). (g) Other related party transactions In 2006, 2005 the Group acquired promissory notes of OAO Svyazbank for 4,700 and 5,500, respectively, and settled partially the promissory notes for 9,022 and 2,607 respectively. Net income from sale of promissory notes of OAO Svyazbank amounted to nil in 2006 and 58 in 2005 and was included in interest income in these consolidated statements of income. Also refer to Notes 12 and 13. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005 held in OAO Svyazbank amounted to 319 and 447, respectively. Certain directors and managers of the Group and OAO Svyazinvest were directors of OAO Svyazbank till June 2006. During 4 months of 2005 and year ended December 31, 2004 the Group acquired promissory notes of OAO Russian Industrial bank (OAO RIB) for 1,271 and 795, respectively, and settled partially the promissory notes for 1,370 and nil, respectively. Gain from sale of promissory notes of OAO RIB amounted to 6 (2004: nil) and was included in interest income in these consolidated statement of income. Certain managers of the Group were directors of OAO RIB till April 29, 2005. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-65 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with other related parties were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 23 1,087 150 Administration and other costs (8 ) (129 ) (31 ) Bad debt (expense)/recovery 84 (7 ) (77 ) The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to such companies were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Accounts receivable 4 239 183 Allowance for doubtful receivables — (84 ) (77 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses — (90 ) (5 ) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a) Legal proceedings The Group is subject to a number of proceedings arising in the course of the normal conduct of its business (refer to (b) below). Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company or the Group. b) Taxation Russian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes occurring frequently. Further, the interpretation of tax legislation by tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activity of the Group's entities may not coincide with that of management. As a result, tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group entities may be assessed additional taxes, penalties and interest, which can be significant. The Group entities' tax returns open for review by the tax and customs authorities with respect to tax liabilities for three calendar years after original filing due date. Under certain circumstances reviews may cover longer periods. As of December 31, 2007 management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Group's tax, currency and customs positions will be sustained upon examination. Management of the Group believes that it has adequately provided for tax liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. However, the general risk remains that relevant authorities could take different position with regard to interpretative issues and the effect could be significant. As a result the comprehensive tax inspection covering the period of 2003, the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation assessed the Group 3,474 in additional taxes, including fines and penalties payable by the Group. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-66 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) The Group disputed the claim of the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation in the Arbitration Court of Moscow. In April of 2007 the Arbitration Court declared the claim of the tax authorities in the amount of 3,473 to be invalid. The court approved the claim in amount of 1. The Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation lodged an appeal with the Court of Appeals (The Ninth Arbitration Court of Appeals). The Court of Appeals confirmed the decision of the Arbitration Court of the first instance with respect to the Group's claims. Besides, the Court of Appeals reduced the amount of the claims of the tax authorities declared valid to 0.15. In December of 2007 the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation appealed to the Court of Cassation. In April of 2008 the Court of Cassation confirmed the decision of the Court of Appeals. The Federal Tax Service can appeal to the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation until August of 2008. Management believes that the Group's position will be defended successfully in the Supreme Arbitration Court. No amounts related to this issue were accrued by the Group as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 in the accompanying financial statements. In December of 2007 the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation completed the comprehensive tax inspection for the period of 2004-2006 and, as a result, issued a claim in the amount of 1,812 of additional taxes, fines and penalties. More than 90% of the amount relates to assessments calculated on the basis of subjective treatment of telecommunication industry legislation by the tax authority. In February of 2008 the Group appealed the decision to a higher taxing authority. Furthermore, the Group is going to appeal to the Arbitration Court of Moscow after its appeal to the higher tax authority is considered. Management believes that, overall, taxes for 2004-2006 has been properly calculated by the Group and fairly stated in its financial statements based on the Group's analysis of the sustainability of liability. As a result of this analysis the Group has accrued additional tax liabilities of 144 as of December 31, 2007. In April 2008 Russian Federal Tax Service completed comprehensive tax inspection of GlobalTel for the period of 2005-2006 and, as a result, issued a claim in the amount of 91 of additional taxes. Major part of this assessment relates to accrual of taxable income with respect to overdue outstanding liability under loan agreements with Loral Space and Communications Corporation (refer to Note 18). Currently GlobalTel litigates over the payment of accounts payable with Loral in international and Russian courts. However, in relation to the accrual of taxable income on outstanding liability under loan agreements in the total amount of 46 the Group believes that it has sufficient arguments for defending its position in Court and no further provisions are necessary based on the technical merits of the tax position taken. To provide for the tax authorities' claim on other issues, the Group has accrued additional tax liabilities of 45 as of December 31, 2007, and liabilities for potential fines and penalties of 16. The Federal Tax service has not initiated a tax inspection of GlobalTel for 2007. When such an inspection is initiated, the Group can be claimed for similar issues as of Loral ones. Management estimates the possible amount of such a claim of 49 and does not provide for this risk for the same reasons as stated above. Besides, for other issues discovered by the Federal Tax Service Management estimated similar risk for 2007 in the amount of 8 and accrued this provision in the accompanying financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-67 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) The Federal Tax Service has not initiated a tax inspection of the Group entities' accounts for 2007. When such an inspection is initiated the Group can be claimed for similar reasons as the Group kept these operations in 2007. Management of the Group estimates the possible amount of such a claim of 208. However, management does not believe that it is probable that they will pay this liability. In relation to the tax inspection claim in the amount of 1,812 as well as to the associated risk in the amount of 208 management believes that it has sufficient arguments for defending its position in Court and no further provisions are necessary based on the technical merits of the tax position taken. c) Licenses Substantially all of the Company's revenues are derived from operations conducted pursuant to licenses granted by the Russian Government. These licenses expire in various years up to 2013. The Company has renewed all other licenses on a regular basis in the past, and believes that it will be able to renew licenses without additional cost in the normal course of business. Suspension or termination of the Company's main licenses or any failure to renew any or all of these main licenses could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and operations of the Group. d) Capital Commitments As of December 31, 2007, contractual commitments of the Group for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 3,298 (2006: 2,915, 2005: 6,220). As of December 31, 2007 all lease contracts are legally cancellable. However the Group was involved in a number of operating land lease agreements on which the Group constructed certain leasehold improvements. Thus it is reasonably certain that these leases would not be cancelled. Future minimum lease payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 2007 were as follows: Current portion 56 Between one to two years 55 Between two to three years 52 Between three to four years 49 Between four to five years 42 Over five years 1,307 Total minimum rental payables 1,561 In connection with the finance lease agreement referred to above in Note 16, the Group also entered into similar type as described above operating IRU lease agreements for the rent of its network capacity of a terrestrial fiber-optic cables for the period of 13 years starting at various dates between 2006 and 2008. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-68 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) Future minimum rentals receivable cancellable operating leases which are merely to be cancelled as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Current portion 83 70 35 Between one to two years 81 90 59 Between two to three years 80 88 76 Between three to four years 78 87 73 Between four to five years 78 86 80 Over five years 347 467 549 Total minimum rental receivables 747 888 872 29. CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Each class of financial assets represented in the Group's balance sheet to some extent is exposed to credit risk. Management develops and implements policies and procedures aiming to minimize the exposure and impact on the Group's financial position in case of risk realization. Financial instruments that could expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk are mainly trade and other receivables. The credit risk associated with these assets is limited due to the Group's large customer base and ongoing procedures to monitor the credit worthiness of customers and other debtors. The Group's accounts receivable are represented by receivables from the Government and other public organizations, businesses and individuals each of them bearing different credit risk. Collection of receivables from the Government and other public organizations is mainly influenced by political and economic factors and not always under full control of the Group. However, management undertakes all possible efforts to minimize the exposure to risk of receivable from this category of subscribers. In particular, credit worthiness of such subscribers is assessed based on financing limits set by the Government. Management believes there were no significant unprovided losses relating to these or other receivables as at December 31, 2007. To reduce risk of exposure on receivables from businesses and individuals the Group implements a range of procedures. Credit risk is determined as a summary of probabilities of occurrences and possible impact of events negatively influencing client's ability to discharge its obligation. Credit rating is attributed to client on initial stage of cooperation and then reassessed periodically based on credit history. As a part of its credit risk management policy the Group arranges preventive procedures which are represented by but not limited to advance payments, request for collaterals, banks and third parties guarantees. For collection of receivables which is past due the Group takes variety of legal actions from suspension of rendering of services to taking legal action. The Group deposits excess cash available with several Russian banks and make investments into promissory notes both of which expose the Group to credit risk since there is no deposit insurance for The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-69 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 29. CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) banks operating in Russia. To manage the credit risk related to deposit of cash available with banks, management of the Group implements procedure to periodically assess the credit worthiness of the banks. To facilitate this assessment deposits are mainly placed with the bank where the Group has already had current settlement account and can easily monitor activity of the bank. Before making an investment into promissory notes management of the Group performs an analysis of financial position of the issuer and monitors its credit worthiness over period up to maturity. Credit quality of the promissory notes is enhanced, whenever possible, by collaterals. To secure obligation of debtor to pay on promissory notes the Group holds collaterals amounting to 26 which are represented by property and stocks. The Group is entitled to dismiss the pledged property and stocks only in case of either non-performance or undue performance of obligations by the debtor. The settlement date under promissory notes secured by collaterals will expire in 2009. Maximum exposures to credit risk are limited to the net carrying amounts of respective financial asset. Such exposure is mitigated by collaterals held by the Group. The Group had no individual customers, other than the Government of the Russian Federation and its related parties (refer to Note 26), that accounted for greater than 10% of its revenue during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. 30. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by preparing and monitoring compliance with a cash budget/forecast This tool considers the maturity of both cash inflow and outflow from the Group's operations. Based on projected cash flow the decision is taken on either investment of free cash or attracting financing required. Realization of liquidity risk management policy provides the Group with sufficient cash to discharge its obligation on a timely basis. Maturity analysis as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 represented below shows undiscounted cash flows. Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 2,841 147 37 — — — Financial lease and vendor financing 1,791 106 54 43 43 307 Accounts payable 7,471 111 29 28 24 144 As of December 31, 2007 12,103 364 120 71 67 451 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-70 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 30. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 3,461 222 68 40 — — Financial lease and vendor financing 1,770 493 93 43 43 349 Accounts payable 7,416 83 85 29 32 171 As of December 31, 2006 12,647 798 246 112 75 520 Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 1,164 876 796 708 641 1,039 Financial lease and vendor financing 1,735 44 44 44 44 438 Accounts payable 4,089 50 43 36 38 207 As of December 31, 2005 6,988 970 883 788 723 1,684 In January 2008 the Russian financial market was influenced by the World liquidity crisis. The Group deals mainly with short-term financial instruments denominated in Russian Rubles and management does not believe the crisis has or will significantly influence the Group's operations. In accordance with Russian legislation, joint stock companies must maintain a level of equity (net assets) that is greater than the charter capital. In the event that a company's net assets, as determined under Russian accounting legislation, fall below certain minimum levels, specifically below zero, the company can be forced to liquidate. ZAO Zebra Telecom and ZAO GlobalTel have had, and continue to have, negative equity as reported in their Russian statutory financial statements. Management believes that the risk of the initiation of statutory liquidation procedures or other material adverse actions is remote. 31. MARKET RISK Our significant market risk exposures are interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and other price risk. Exposure to other price risk is arisen from available for sale investments quoted on active market Interest rate risk Interest rate risk mainly relates to floating rate debt denominated primarily in U.S. dollars and euros. To manage this risk the Group entered into interest rate swap to hedge significant amount of its floating rate debt. Other borrowings do not materially influence the exposure to interest risk. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-71 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 31. MARKET RISK (Continued) The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interests rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group's profit before tax. Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on profit before tax 2007 EUR +1.0 % (1 ) EUR -1.0 % 1 USD +1.0 % (63 ) USD -1.0 % 63 2006 EUR +1.0 % (2 ) EUR -1.0 % 2 USD +1.0 % (94 ) USD -1.0 % 94 2005 EUR +1.0 % (3 ) EUR -1.0 % 3 USD +1.0 % (126 ) USD -1.0 % 126 Foreign exchange risk The main business of the Group is maintained with Russian counterparties on agreements in Russian Rubles. The Group's foreign currency receivables and payables arise mainly on contracts with foreign operators because of international industry practice to make settlements in US dollars or SDR. Hence, the Group will be exposed to foreign exchange risk as far as it continues to make settlements with foreign counterparties. In 2007, approximately 10.2% (2006: 8%, 2005: 12%) of the Group's revenues and 15.0% (2006: 14%, 2005: 17%) of the Group's expenses were denominated in currencies other than the Russian ruble. Revenues generated in foreign currency represent income received from foreign operators, and foreign currency denominated expenses consist primarily of payments to foreign operators for international long-distance traffic termination. Accounts receivable from foreign operators and accounts payable to foreign operators which are denominated in foreign currencies amounted to approximately 8.2% (2006: 5%, 2005: 9%) of the Group's total accounts receivable and 11.5% (2006: 18%, 2005: 36%) of the Group's total accounts payable as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and outstanding as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to 88.9%, 94% and 100% of the Group's total borrowings as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-72 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 31. MARKET RISK (Continued) The Group does not have formal arrangements to mitigate foreign exchange risks of the Group's operations. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the group profit before tax. Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on profit before tax 2007 EUR +3.5 % (8 ) EUR -6.0 % 13 USD +4.0 % (104 ) USD -5.5 % 143 SDR +4.0 % 4 SDR -5.5 % (5 ) 2006 EUR +3.5 % (6 ) EUR -6.0 % 11 USD +4.0 % (138 ) USD -5.5 % 189 SDR +4.0 % (7 ) SDR -5.5 % 10 2005 EUR +3.5 % (12 ) EUR -6.0 % 20 USD +4.0 % (109 ) USD -5.5 % 149 SDR +4.4 % (14 ) SDR -5.5 % 20 Other price risk As of December 31, 2007 the Group's assets include investments into quoted securities subject to other price risk. To mitigate this risk the Group analyses on regular way market trends on securities and takes a decision to sale on necessity. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-73 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in market indexes on securities, with all other variables held constant, of the group profit in term of result of fair value revaluation recognized in equity. Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on revaluation result recognised in equity 2007 MICEX +30.0 % 3,532 MICEX -30.0 % (3,532 ) 2006 MICEX +30.0 % 1,706 MICEX -30.0 % (1,706 ) 2005 MICEX +30.0 % 995 MICEX -30.0 % (995 ) The primary objective of the Group's capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize the return to shareholders. The Board of directors reviews the Group's performance and establishes variety of key performance indicators which are based on Russian statutory accounts. In addition, the Group is subject to externally imposed capital requirements (VEB loan covenants) which are used for capital monitoring. There were no changes in the objectives, policies and processes during 2007. Capital includes equity attributable part to the equity holders of the parent entity. Revaluation surplus which is included in capital is not subject to capital management because of its nature. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it by issue of new shares, dividend payments to shareholders, purchase of treasury shares. The Group monitors the compliance of the amount of legal reserve with the statutory requirements. In addition, the Group monitors distributable profits on a regular basis and determines the amounts and timing of dividends payments. 33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Investments in Golden Telecom In February 2008 the Group accepted an offer by Lilian Asquisition, Inc., a subsidiary of Vimpelcom, to the purchase the Group's shares of Golden Telecom, Inc. Consideration from the Group's sale of 4,417,055 shares of Golden Telecom, Inc. amounted to USD 464 million (11,385). As of the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements the deal was closed and cash was received at full. Profit from this transaction before tax amounted to 8,666 of which 440 relates to profit for 2008 and 8,226 was recognized in equity in 2005-2007 as a result of fair value revaluation. In 2008 the Group will pay income tax of 2,322 in connection with the sale of Golden Telecom shares from which 2,122 was recognized as deferred tax liability in 2005-2007. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-74 OAO Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 (Continued) (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) 33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (Continued) Investments in OAO RTComm.RU In March 2008 the Group's Board of Directors authorized the purchase of additional 68.4% equity interest in OAO RTComm.RU that will increase the Group's equity interest in OAO RTComm.Ru up to 99.5% and result in obtaining control over it. The acquisition does not significantly influence the Group's financial position. The expected cost of additional investments approximates 1,500. As of the date of issuance of the accompanying consolidated financial statements the deal was not completed. Change in legislation According to several acts of Federal Tariff Service, starting from February 2008 the Company decreased tariffs on domestic long distance telecommunication services approximately by 10%. Dividends for the year ended December 31, 2007 In June 2008 the Group's shareholders authorized dividends of 2,356 for the year ended December 31, 2007. Dividends Dividends per share, Rbl Ordinary Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 1,413.6 1.9399 Preferred Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 942.4 3.8809 Total 2,356.0 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-75 QuickLinks TABLE OF CONTENTS LEGEND OF TERMS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Item 3. Key Information 