ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, actually occur, it is likely that our business, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Company We have experienced significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. We have incurred annual net losses of $26.0 million and $25.4 million, respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. As of December 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $96.0 million. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. Although we expect sales to continue to increase in 2016 and beyond from our existing product offerings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these revenues throughout the year or be profitable in the future. We will require additional capital in order to execute the longer term aspects of our business plan. The implementation of our growth strategy will continue to result in an increase in our fixed cost structure. Due to the time delay between outlays for working capital expenditures, such as costs to acquire rights to additional products, the hiring and training of sales agents and personnel, marketing costs, the purchasing of inventory, the billing and collection of revenue, the conducting of a post marketing clinical trial for Biovance, debt service costs, and diligence costs related to merger and acquisition activities, we expect to have a net cash outflow from operating activities as a result of these expenditures. Future results of operations involve significant risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect our future operating results and cause actual results to vary materially from expectations include, but are not limited to, potential demand for our products, risks from competitors, regulatory approval of our new products, technological change, and dependence on key personnel. In addition, half of the contingent consideration payable to Celleration shareholders will be payable in cash in 2016 and 2017. In order to complete our future growth strategy, additional equity and/or debt financing will be required. If we are unable to raise additional capital or if we encounter circumstances that place unforeseen constraints on capital resources, we will be required to take even stronger measures to conserve liquidity, which may include, but are not limited to, eliminating all non-essential positions and ceasing all marketing efforts. We would have to curtail business development activities and suspend the pursuit of our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in improving revenues, reducing expenses and/or securing additional capital in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness under our $15.5 million principal term loan, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. In order to finance our acquisition of Celleration, on May 29, 2015, we and each of our subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement and guaranty (the “Credit Agreement”) with a third-party lender, which provided for a senior, secured term loan in the principal amount of approximately $15.5 million. The full unpaid principal amount of the term loan will mature on May 29, 2019. Prior to maturity, on the last business day of each calendar month following May 29, 2017, we will be required to make monthly principal payments of $225,000,with any remaining unpaid balance of the term loan being payable in cash on the maturity date. The repayment of the term loan and our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by a first priority lien on all of our existing and after acquired tangible and intangible assets, including intellectual property. The Credit Agreement also contains certain restrictions that prohibit us and our subsidiaries from engaging in certain transactions and activities, including but not limited to the following: ·entering into, creating, incurring or assuming any indebtedness of any kind, subject to limited exceptions; ·creating or incurring new liens, subject to certain exceptions; ·entering into new acquisitions or investments in other entities, subject to certain exceptions; ·winding up, liquidating or dissolving; ·merging or consolidating with another person or disposing of assets, subject to certain exceptions; ·entering into inbound or outbound licenses, subject to certain exceptions; ·changing the nature of our core business; 13 ·paying cash dividends; and ·repaying, repurchasing or otherwise acquiring shares of our common stock or other equity securities. Our ability to meet our expenses, debt obligations and other financial covenants under the Credit Agreement will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet any other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required, but unable to refinance or restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and the lender could foreclose on its security interest and liquidate some or all of our assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Credit Agreement also requires us to meet certain financial covenants. Our ability to meet these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement, the lender could institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of our increased level of indebtedness, demands on our cash resources will continue to increase in the future and could, among other things: •require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; •limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development expenditures and other general corporate requirements; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which we operate; •restrict our ability to make strategic acquisitions or dispositions or to exploit business opportunities; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; •adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase and our ability to obtain surety bonds could be impaired; •adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and •limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of debt. If an event of default occurs under the Credit Agreement, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, or the loss of our assets as the lender holds a first priority security interest in all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include, but are not limited to, the following: ·failure to pay principal, interest or other amounts, if any, when due; ·any form of bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding instituted by or against us or any of our subsidiaries that is not dismissed in 60 days; ·a default occurring under any debenture, mortgage, credit agreement, indenture or other instrument representing or securing indebtedness in an amount exceeding $250,000; ·we or any of our subsidiaries is party to a change of control; ·the FDA or other governmental authority (i) issues a letter or other communication asserting any of our products lacks a required product authorization, including in respect of CE marks or 510(k)s or 361HCT/P qualification, or (ii) initiates enforcement action or warning against us, any of our products or manufacturing facilities resulting in the discontinuance of marketing, withdrawal of any material products, or delay in the manufacture of any material products, each lasting for more than 90 days; 14 ·a recall of any product that has generated or is expected to generate at least $1,000,000 in revenue in the aggregate over any consecutive twelve (12) month period; ·we or any of our subsidiaries enters into a settlement agreement with the FDA or any other governmental authority that results in aggregate liability as to any single or related series of transactions, incidents or conditions, in excess of $500,000; ·we are in default under our license agreement with CCT or the license agreement is terminated, amended, waived or otherwise modified in a manner materially adverse to the lender’s interests; and ·failure to observe or perform any other covenant contained in the Credit Agreement. If an event of default were to occur, payment of the entire principal amount could be accelerated and become immediately due and payable. The cash that we may be required to pay would most likely come out of our working capital, which may be insufficient to repay the obligation or leave us with insufficient cash to finance our operations. In such event, we may lose some or all of our assets as the lender could foreclose on its security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be required to file for bankruptcy, sell assets, or cease operations, any of which would put our company, our investors and the value of our common stock, at significant risk. The pledge of these assets and other restrictions may limit our flexibility in raising capital for other purposes. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged under the $15.5 million principal term loan, our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness or to sell or dispose of assets to raise capital may be impaired, which could have an adverse effect on our financial flexibility. A portion of the merger consideration for the acquisition of Celleration is contingent on the occurrence of certain events in the future, which could result in future dilution to our shareholders. In connection with our acquisition of Celleration, we agreed to pay certain additional consideration to Celleration equity holders that is contingent upon the occurrence of certain events in the future over which we have limited control. In addition, for a period of 18 months after the closing of the merger, we have the right to setoff certain indemnification claims against the contingent consideration in certain circumstances. The exact amounts of cash and shares of our common stock that Celleration equity holders will be entitled to receive as part of the total merger consideration cannot be determined as of the date of this report. The issuance of any additional shares of our common stock as part of the contingent consideration upon the occurrence of certain future events will dilute the ownership position of our current stockholders and may result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, including a stock price decrease. If we fail to meet certain minimum sales thresholds for products licensed pursuant to our agreement with CCT, we could lose our right to license such products. Our license agreement with CCT is terminable on a product-by-product basis if we fail to meet certain minimum sales thresholds in the second year or any subsequent year following the commencement of commercial sales of each licensed product. We commenced sales of Biovance in April 2014. Therefore, in order to maintain our license for Biovance, we must meet the minimum gross sales amount for Biovance during 2016. If we fail to sell Biovance products in amounts that meet or exceed the minimum sales threshold for the second year of commercial sales, we may cure such minimum sales failure by paying CCT in cash an amount equal to the difference between the annual license fee for the second year of commercial sales and the aggregate royalties which would be due to CCT if gross annual sales of Biovance had satisfied the minimum sales threshold amount. If we do not cure a minimum sales failure with a makeup payment for the second year of commercial sales, CCT may terminate our license with respect to Biovance. No assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the minimum sales threshold for Biovance or that we will have sufficient capital to make the payments required to cure a minimum sales failure. Moreover, if we were required to make such a makeup payment to retain our Biovance license, it could impair our liquidity. We also have no right to cure a minimum sales failure starting in 2017 through a makeup payment. If we were to lose or otherwise become unable to maintain our right to license Biovance or other products from CCT, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any termination of our right to license Biovance or other products under the license agreement with CCT could trigger an event of default under the Credit Agreement that we entered into to finance the cash portion of the purchase price for the Celleration acquisition. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel. We believe that our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to retain our executive officers, including David Johnson, our Chief Executive Officer, Brian Posner, our Chief Financial Officer, Nino Pionati our Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer and Brad Barton, our Chief Operating Officer, and other key personnel, and attract additional skilled personnel, which may require substantial additional funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees or retain any such executive officers and other key personnel. Our inability to hire qualified personnel, the loss of services of our executive officers or key personnel, or the loss of services of executive officers or key personnel who may be hired in the future may have a material and adverse effect on our business Our strategic business plan may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. Our strategies include making significant investments in sales and marketing programs to achieve revenue growth and margin improvement targets. If we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the growth improvement we are targeting and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 15 Our acquisition strategy may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income. As part of our strategy for growth, we may make acquisitions and enter into strategic alliances such as joint ventures and joint development agreements. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. Such acquisitions could reduce shareholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. In addition, acquisitions involve other risks, including diversion of management resources otherwise available for ongoing development of our business and risks associated with entering new markets with which we have limited experience or where distribution alliances with experienced distributors are not available. Our future profitability may depend in part upon our ability to further develop our resources to adapt to these new products or business areas and to identify and enter into satisfactory distribution networks. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all, or the acquired business may not perform in accordance with our expectations. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends upon market acceptance of our existing and future products. We believe that our success will depend in part upon the acceptance of our existing and future products by the medical community, hospitals and physicians and other health care providers, third-party payers, and end-users. Such acceptance may depend upon the extent to which the medical community and end-users perceive our products as safer, more effective or cost-competitive than other similar products. Ultimately, for our new products to gain general market acceptance, it may also be necessary for us to develop marketing partners for the distribution of our products. There can be no assurance that our new products will achieve significant market acceptance on a timely basis, or at all. Failure of some or all of our future products to achieve significant market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on significant customers. Historically, our contract manufacturing business has generated most of our revenue, and much of this revenue is generated from a limited number of clients, who account for a substantial percentage of our total revenues. One customer accounted for approximately 10% and 23% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. This customer is a medical device manufacturer and a consumer of our contract manufacturing products. The decrease in this concentration is due to an increase in product revenue, which is consistent with our strategy. We expect that as revenues from the sales of our proprietary wound dressings increase, this concentration will continue to abate in 2016. The loss of any of our significant customers would have a significant negative effect on our overall operations. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: ●the time and resources required to develop and conduct clinical trials and obtain regulatory approvals for our products; ●the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and/or ●the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. If we do not accurately predict our operating expenses, we may not allocate resources appropriately, which could lead to cash shortfalls and force us to seek additional capital or curtail other projects or initiatives, all of which could have a significant negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face competition from large, well-established medical device manufacturers as well as new market entrants. Competition from other medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In addition to competing with universities and other research institutions in the development of products, technologies and processes, we compete with other companies in acquiring rights to products or technologies from those institutions. A number of factors may limit the market acceptance of our products, including the timing of regulatory approvals and market entry relative to competitive products, the availability of alternative products, and the price of our products relative to alternative products, the availability of third party reimbursement and the extent of marketing efforts by third party distributors or agents that we retain. There can be no assurance that our products will receive market acceptance in a commercially viable period of time, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can develop products that are more effective or achieve greater market acceptance than competitive products, or that our competitors will not succeed in developing or acquiring products and technologies that are more effective than those being developed by us, that would render our products and technologies less competitive or obsolete. 16 Our competitors enjoy several competitive advantages over us, including some or all of the following: ●large and established distribution networks in the U.S. and/or in international markets; ●greater financial, managerial and other resources for products research and development, sales and marketing efforts and protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights; ●significantly greater name recognition; ●more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights; ●established relations with physicians, hospitals, other healthcare providers and third party payers; ●products which have been approved by regulatory authorities for use in the U.S. and/or Europe and which are supported by long-term clinical data; and ●greater experience in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and/or clearances from the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Our competitors’ products will compete directly with our products. In addition, our competitors as well as new market entrants may develop or acquire new treatments, products or procedures that will compete directly or indirectly with our products. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our existing and potential future products will require FDA approval before they can be marketed in the United States. Inherent in the development of new medical products is the potential for delay because product testing, including clinical evaluation, is required before most products can be approved for human use. With respect to medical devices, such as those that we manufacture and market, before a new medical device, or a new use of, or claim for, an existing product can be marketed, unless it is a Class I device, it must first receive either premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA, from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that the proposed device is “substantially equivalent” to a device legally on the market, known as a “predicate” device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness to clear the proposed device for marketing. Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence. The PMA approval pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use based, in part, on extensive data including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data. The premarket approval process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices. Both the 510(k) and premarket approval processes can be expensive and lengthy and entail significant user fees. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals or clearances, seizures or recalls of products, injunctions against the manufacture, holding, distribution, marketing and sale of a product, civil and criminal sanctions. Furthermore, changes in existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could prevent us from obtaining, or affect the timing of, future regulatory approvals. Meeting regulatory requirements and evolving government standards may delay marketing of our new products for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities and result in a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete against us. We cannot assure you that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will approve any products developed by us, on a timely basis, if at all, or, if granted, that approval will not entail limiting the indicated uses for which we may market the product, which could limit the potential market for any of these products. Changes to the FDA approval process or ongoing regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain FDA approval of our products or comply with ongoing requirements. Based on scientific developments, post-market experience, or other legislative or regulatory changes, the current FDA standards of review for approving new medical device products are sometimes more stringent than those that were applied in the past. For example, the FDA is currently evaluating the 510(k) process for clearing medical devices and may make substantial changes to industry requirements, including which devices are eligible for 510(k) clearance, the ability to rescind previously granted 510(k) clearances and additional requirements that may significantly impact the process. 17 We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations or legal interpretations by the FDA or the courts, when and if promulgated or issued, may have on our business in the future. Changes could, among other things, require different labeling, monitoring of patients, interaction with physicians, education programs for patients or physicians, curtailment of necessary supplies, or limitations on product distribution. These changes, or others required by the FDA could have an adverse effect on the sales of these products. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory science and regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of the FDA and the generally high level of regulatory oversight results in a continuing possibility that from time to time, we will be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite ongoing efforts and commitment to achieve and maintain full compliance with all regulatory requirements. Should the FDA determine that Biovance does not meet regulatory requirements that permit qualifying HCT/Ps to be processed, stored, labeled and distributed without pre-marketing approval, our supplier may be required by the FDA to stop processing and we may be required to stop distributing Biovance, or to narrow the indications for which Biovance is marketed, which, in turn, could also result in a default under our planned credit facility. Biovance is a product derived from human tissue. The FDA has specific regulations governing HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into humans. HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act and 21 CFR 1271 (361 HCT/Ps) are not subject to pre-market clearance or approval requirements, but are subject to post-market regulatory requirements. To be a 361 HCT/P, a product must meet all four of the following criteria: ¨It must be minimally manipulated; ¨It must be intended for homologous use; ¨It must not be combined with another article; and ¨It must not have a systemic effect and not be dependent upon the metabolic activity of living cells for its primary function. We and Celgene believe that Biovance qualifies as a 361 HCT/P. The FDA is in the process of clarifying definitions of homologous use and minimal manipulation in their Guidance for Industry publications. Should a significant change occur with these updated final documents expected in 2016, and the FDA disagrees with our belief, changes its policy with respect to 361 HCT/P qualifications, or determines that our marketing claims exceed what would be permitted for a 361 product, and Biovance is determined to not qualify as a section 361 HCT/P product, we may have to revise our labeling and other written or oral statements of use or obtain approval or clearance from the FDA before we can continue to market the product in the United States. Furthermore, a communication from the FDA asserting that Biovance does not qualify as a 361 HCT/P product could also trigger an event of default under the Credit Agreement that we entered into to finance the cash portion of the purchase price for the Celleration acquisition. Modifications to our current products may require new marketing clearances or approvals or require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until such clearances or approvals are obtained. Any modification to a FDA-cleared product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change or modification in its intended use, requires a new FDA 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a premarket approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make its own determination as to whether a modification requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval, but the FDA may review and disagree with any decision reached by the manufacturer. In the future, we may make additional modifications to our products after they have received FDA clearance or approval and, in appropriate circumstances, determine that new clearance or approval is unnecessary. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our past or future decisions not to seek new clearance or approval and may require us to obtain clearance or approval for modifications to our products. If that were to occur for a previously cleared or approved product, we may be required to cease marketing or recall the modified device until we obtain the necessary clearance or approval. Under these circumstances, we may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or other penalties. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 18 We and our manufacturers will be required to comply with current GMPs and GTPs and could be subject to suspensions or product withdrawals if found non-compliant. The FDA regulates the facilities, processes and procedures used to manufacture and market medical products in the U.S. Manufacturing facilities must be registered with the FDA and all products made in such facilities must be manufactured in accordance with “current good manufacturing practices,” or cGMP, regulations enforced by the FDA. Compliance with cGMP regulations requires the dedication of substantial resources and requires significant expenditures. The FDA periodically inspects our manufacturing facilities and those of our subcontractors and procedures to assure compliance. The FDA may cause a suspension or withdrawal of product approvals if regulatory standards are not maintained. In the event an approved manufacturing facility for a particular drug or medical device is required by the FDA to curtail or cease operations, or otherwise becomes inoperable, or a third party contract manufacturing facility faces manufacturing problems, obtaining the required FDA authorization to manufacture at the same or a different manufacturing site could result in production delays, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. We will be subject to ongoing federal and state regulations, and if we fail to comply, our business could be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any products that we may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including review of adverse (drug or device) experiences or reactions and clinical results that are reported after our products become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing tests or continued actions required by a condition of approval. The manufacturing facilities we may use to make any of our products may become subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. If a previously unknown problem or problems with a product or a manufacturing and laboratory facility used by us is discovered, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or on the manufacturing facility, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. Any changes to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA approval before the product, as modified, can be marketed. In addition, for products we develop in the future, we and our contract manufacturers may be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we or any of our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: ●issue warning letters; ●impose civil or criminal penalties; ●suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval; ●suspend or terminate any of our ongoing clinical trials; ●refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; ●impose restrictions on our operations; ●close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; and/or ●seize or detain products or require a product recall. Additionally, regulatory review covers a company’s activities in the promotion of its medical products, with significant potential penalties and restrictions for promotion of drugs, devices or tissues for an unapproved use. Sales and marketing programs, such as illegal promotions to health care professionals, are under scrutiny for compliance with various mandated requirements. We are also required to submit information on open and completed clinical trials to public registries and databases. Failure to comply with these requirements could expose us to negative publicity, fines and penalties that could harm our business. If we violate regulatory requirements at any stage, whether before or after marketing approval is obtained, we may be fined, be forced to remove a product from the market or experience other adverse consequences, including delay, which would materially harm our financial results. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for product promotion. We and our sales personnel, whether employed by us or by others, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and the marketers of our products are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to liability, or claims of alleged violations. Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines; civil and criminal penalties; exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers’ compensation programs and TRICARE, the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents; and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions. Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws that also authorize substantial civil and criminal penalties for violations. Any government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by any federal healthcare program, including Medicare. The scope and enforcement of the healthcare fraud and abuse laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change. There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement agencies will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws. Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any state or federal investigation, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and time-consuming. Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only. If we engage additional physicians on a consulting basis, the agreements with these physicians will be structured to comply with all applicable laws, including the federal ban on physician self-referrals (commonly known as the “Stark Law”) the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, state anti-self-referral and anti-kickback laws. Even so, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these agreements as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties. Because our strategy includes the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with our physician advisors who refer or order our products to be in violation of one or more health care fraud and abuse laws. Such government action could harm our reputation and the reputations of our physician advisors. In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial because we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from state and federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect the proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of trademark laws and confidentiality, noncompetition and other contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. Our patents and patent applications, if issued, may not be broad enough to prevent competitors from introducing similar products into the market. Our patents, if challenged or if it attempts to enforce them, may not necessarily be upheld by the courts. In addition, patent protection in foreign countries may be different from patent protection under U.S. laws and may not be favorable to us. Efforts to enforce any of our proprietary rights could be time-consuming and expensive, which could adversely affect our business and prospects and divert management’s attention. We are dependent on proprietary know-how. Our manufacturing know-how as to mixing, coating and cross-linking may be able to be duplicated, even if it is difficult to do so. There is no assurance that, should we apply for intellectual property protection for our intellectual property, we would be able to obtain such protection. Therefore, our competitors may develop or market technologies that are more effective or more commercially attractive than ours. We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, there is no assurance that such protections will preclude our competitors from developing and/or marketing similar products. While we are not aware of any third party intellectual property that would materially affect our business, our failure or inability to obtain patents and protect our proprietary information could result in our business being adversely affected. If we are not able to establish and maintain successful arrangements with third parties or successfully build our own sales and marketing infrastructure, we may not be able to commercialize our products, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are currently expanding our sales and marketing capabilities. To commercialize our products, we must continue to develop our own sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, which will be expensive and time consuming, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. The third parties may not be capable of successfully selling any of our products. We will have to commit significant resources to developing a marketing and sales force and supporting distribution capabilities. If we decide to enter into arrangements with third parties for performance of these services, we may find that they are not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 20 We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming, costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights and, in the case of patent infringement claims, the assessment of treble damages. On occasion, we may receive notices of claims of our infringement, misappropriation or misuse of other parties’ proprietary rights. We may have disputes regarding intellectual property rights with the parties that have licensed those rights to us. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive and time-consuming, could divert management’s attention from our business and have a material negative effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, the outcome of such litigation may be unpredictable. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages—including treble damages if we were to be found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent—to the party claiming infringement, and to develop non-infringing technology, stop selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable or commercially practical terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. In addition, modifying our products to exclude infringing technologies could require us to seek re-approval or clearance from various regulatory bodies for our products, which would be costly and time consuming. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our technology. Parties making infringement claims on future issued patents may be able to obtain an injunction that would prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could harm our business. Our products risk exposure to product liability claims We are and, if successful in developing, testing and commercializing our products, will increasingly be, exposed to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of such products. It is likely we will be contractually obligated, under any distribution agreements that we enter into with respect to products we manufacture, to indemnify the individuals and/or entities that distribute our products against claims relating to the manufacture and sale of products distributed by such distribution partners. This indemnification liability, as well as direct liability to consumers for any defects in the products sold, could expose us to substantial risks and losses. While we have obtained product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. As we begin to sell and distribute our new line of proprietary products, we intend to increase the limits of our product liability insurance. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could result in judgments, fines, damages and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant expense investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Moreover, even if no judgments, fines, damages or liabilities are imposed on us, our reputation could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare policy changes, including recent laws to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on us. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been, and continue to be, proposals by legislators, regulators, and third-party payers to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if passed, would impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payers. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Various healthcare reform proposals have emerged at the federal and state levels. We cannot predict the exact effect newly enacted laws or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. However, the implementation of new legislation and regulation may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, the enacted excise tax may materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and results of operations. Decisions in reimbursement levels by governmental or other third-party payers for procedures using our products may have an adverse impact on acceptance of our products. We believe that our products will be purchased principally by hospitals or physicians, which typically bill various third-party payers, such as state and federal healthcare programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the products and services provided to their patients. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for products and services from third-party payers is critical to the success of our business because reimbursement status affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. In addition, our ability to obtain reimbursement approval in foreign jurisdictions will affect our ability to expand our product offerings internationally. 21 Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, a number of policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These policies include: ●imposition of conditions of payment by foreign, state and federal healthcare programs as well as private insurance plans, and; ●reduction in reimbursement amounts applicable to specific products and services. Adverse decisions relating to coverage or reimbursement of our products would have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them. We are unable to predict whether foreign, federal, state or local healthcare reform legislation or regulation affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future, or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Changes in healthcare systems in the U.S. or internationally in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our products or denies coverage for these procedures would also have an adverse impact on the acceptance of our products and the prices which our customers are willing to pay for them. It may be difficult to replace some of our suppliers. In general, raw materials essential to our business are readily available from multiple sources. However, for reasons of quality assurance, availability, or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. The Dow Chemical Company and the BASF Corporation are the principal manufacturers of the two polymers, polyethylene oxide and polyvinylpyrrolidone, respectively, that we primarily use in the manufacture of hydrogels. Carolina Silver is the principal manufacturer utilized in production of our TheraBond dressings. Carolina Silver utilizes a proprietary and patented manufacturing process. We believe that, due to the size and scale of production of our suppliers, there should be adequate supply of these raw materials from these manufacturers. In addition, our policy is to maintain sufficient inventory of components so that our production will not be significantly disrupted even if a particular component or material is not available for a period of time. However, there is no guarantee that our inventory will be sufficient to carry us through any disruption in supply. Because we have no direct control over our third-party suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary raw materials or products, we may be unable to redesign or adapt our technology to work without such raw materials or products or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs or quality control problems. Under our distribution agreement with Sorbion and our supply agreements with CCT, we receive finished goods from these parties. Because we have no direct control over these suppliers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers are unable or unwilling to deliver the necessary products, we would be unable to sell these products, and, therefore, could experience a significant adverse impact on our revenue. We purchase the UltraMIST system from two sources. Reliance on outside suppliers makes us vulnerable to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture the UltraMIST System and/or disposable applicators, resulting in harm to our business, including: •inability to obtain an adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; •uncorrected defects that impact the performance, efficacy and safety of its products; •difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; •production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; •delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or other customers; and •delays in delivery or production stoppage by our supplier due to a shortage of one or more of the components comprising our product. If the supply of the UltraMIST System or the disposable applicators for the MIST Therapy System or UltraMIST System or saline bottles/bags is interrupted or significantly delayed and we are unable to acquire product from alternate sources in a timely manner and at a commercially reasonable price, our ability to meet our customers’ demand would be impaired and our business could be harmed. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for the UltraMIST System or disposable applicators may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Interruption of supply from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers would limit its ability to distribute its products and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business. 22 We are dependent upon third-party local distributors to market and distribute our products in key markets. We rely on third-party distributors for marketing and distribution of our products in certain markets, both domestically and internationally. Our success in generating sales in markets where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not employ. Many of these distributors have only limited personnel, which could impair their ability to successfully market, sell and service our products. Because of limited resources or for other reasons, they may not comply with applicable local regulations or respond promptly to adverse event reporting requirements under U.S. FDA regulations. As a result of such failures to comply with regulatory requirements, we may experience significant loss of revenue, increased costs and damage to our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor, to transfer or obtain appropriate regulatory approvals and to train its personnel to market our products, and our ability to sell and service our products in the region formerly serviced by such terminated distributor could be materially adversely affected. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our revenue from international markets, increase our costs in those markets or damage our reputation. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause its business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we use networks to collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and that of its customers, suppliers and business partners, personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, and data relating to patients who use its products. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, its information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in its products and services, which could adversely affect our operating margins, revenues and competitive position. We are subject to federal and state regulation with respect to electron beam radiation services and facilities. We are also subject to federal and state regulation with respect to electron beam radiation services and facilities. The expansion of our business into the manufacturing and distribution of our products for consumer use will subject us to additional governmental regulation. Risks Related to the Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ·technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; ·additions or departures of key personnel; ·sales of our common stock, particularly under any registration statement for the purposes of selling any other securities, including management shares; ·our ability to execute our business plan; ·operating results that fall below expectations; ·loss of any strategic relationship; ·industry developments; ·economic, political and other external factors; and ·period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price, and the stock price of many other life science companies, have suffered significant declines over the past 12 months. Market prices for securities of life sciences companies, particularly companies like ours with limited product revenues, have been highly volatile and have suffered sharp losses over the past 12 months. As a result of these declines, it has become much harder for life sciences companies, like us, to raise money, as needed, in the capital markets. As such, should we desire to sell equity in the future to raise capital, such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, any such capital raises could be highly dilutive to current stockholders. Depressed valuations of our stock will also make it harder for us to consummate strategic transactions or acquisitions, which have historically been a significant part of our growth strategy, absent significant dilution to our current investors. 23 We do not expect to pay dividends in the future. As a result, any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our securities if you require dividend income. Capital appreciation, if any, of our shares may be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Moreover, you may not be able to re-sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements that place significant demands on our resources. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. It also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal control over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. There are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, which is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. In addition, discovery and disclosure of a material weakness, by definition, could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. Such an occurrence could discourage certain customers or suppliers from doing business with us, cause downgrades in our future debt ratings leading to higher borrowing costs and affect how our stock trades. This could, in turn, negatively affect our ability to access public debt or equity markets for capital. Our board of directors can authorize the issuance of preferred stock, which could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and make a change of control of us more difficult even if it might benefit our shareholders. Our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the voting powers, preferences and other rights and limitations of the preferred stock. Accordingly, we may issue shares of preferred stock with a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends or distributions on liquidation or dissolution, or that may otherwise adversely affect the voting or other rights of the holders of common stock. Issuances of preferred stock, depending upon the rights, preferences and designations of the preferred stock, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control, even if that change of control might benefit our shareholders. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could decrease the price of our common stock. 24 In addition, if our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, upon the expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang,” in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Although we currently have research coverage by securities and industry analysts, you should not invest in our common stock in anticipation that we will increase such coverage. If one or more of the analysts who covers us at any given time downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analyst’s ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 