ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our business, operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or businesses in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in outsourcing trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could materially and 9 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends in large part on demand from the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries for outsourced marketing and sales services. The practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire outside organizations like us to conduct large sales and marketing projects on their behalf. However, companies may elect to perform these services internally for a variety of reasons, including the rate of new product development and FDA approval of those products, the number of sales representatives employed internally in relation to demand for or the need to promote new and existing products, and competition from other suppliers. Recently, there has been a slow-down in the rate of approval of new products by the FDA and this trend may continue. Additionally, several large pharmaceutical companies have recently made changes to their commercial model by reducing the number of sales representatives employed internally and through outside organizations like us. If the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries reduce their tendency to outsource these projects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If companies in the life sciences industries significantly reduce their promotional, marketing and sales expenditures or significantly reduce or eliminate the role of pharmaceutical sales representatives in the promotion of their products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues depend on promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by companies in the life sciences industries, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Promotional, marketing and sales expenditures by pharmaceutical manufacturers have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively impacted by, among other things, governmental reform or private market initiatives intended to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products or by governmental, medical association or pharmaceutical industry initiatives designed to regulate the manner in which pharmaceutical manufacturers promote their products. Furthermore, the trend in the life sciences industries toward consolidation may result in a reduction in overall sales and marketing expenditures and, potentially, a reduction in the use of contract sales and marketing services providers. If companies in the life sciences industries significantly reduce their promotional, marketing and sales expenditures or significantly reduce or eliminate the role of pharmaceutical sales representatives in the promotion of their products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our service contracts are generally short-term agreements and are cancelable at any time, which may result in lost revenue and additional costs and expenses. Our service contracts are generally for a term of one to two years (certain of our operating entities have contracts of shorter duration) and many may be terminated by the customer at any time for any reason. In addition, our customers may significantly reduce the number of representatives we deploy on their behalf. The early termination or significant reduction of a contract by one of our customers not only results in lost revenue, but also typically causes us to incur additional costs and expenses. All of our sales representatives are employees rather than independent contractors. Accordingly, when a contract is significantly reduced or terminated, unless we can immediately transfer the related sales force to a new program, if permitted under the contract, we must either continue to compensate those employees, without realizing any related revenue, or terminate their employment. If we terminate their employment, we may incur significant expenses relating to their termination. The loss, termination or significant reduction of a large contract or the loss of multiple contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our revenue is derived from a limited number of customers, the loss of any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue and profitability depend to a great extent on our relationships with a limited number of large pharmaceutical companies. As of December 31, 2007, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 13.7%, 12.9% and 11.3% respectively, or approximately 37.9% in the aggregate, of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our three largest customers accounted for 28.5%, 18.3% and 9.9%, respectively, or approximately 56.7% in the aggregate, of our revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our three largest customers, each of whom represented 10% or more of our revenue, accounted for, in the aggregate, approximately 73.6% of our revenue. We are likely to continue to experience a high degree of customer concentration, particularly if there is further consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry. The loss or a significant reduction of business from any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, during 2006 and 2007, we announced the termination and expiration of a number of significant service contracts, including our sales force engagements with AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), sanofi-aventis and another large pharmaceutical company 10 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) customer. These four customers accounted for approximately $150.9 million in revenue during 2006 and $15.9 million in revenue during 2007. Our senior management team is currently in the process of implementing our long-term strategic plan. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement this plan. In May 2006, Michael Marquard and Jeffrey Smith joined us as our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, respectively. In 2007, we initiated the implementation of a five-year strategic plan that was further refined in the first quarter of 2008. In order to implement our strategic plan, we may seek to do one or more of the following: · introduce new sales support services that provide greater flexibility to our customers; · organically develop or acquire complementary commercialization services in order to expand our portfolio of service offerings to the biopharmaceutical and life sciences industries and to strengthen our contract sales offerings; and · explore attractive product commercialization opportunities. While we expect to expend significant funds and other resources implementing this strategy, there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement this strategy or be able to expand our market share, increase revenue, yield a return on investment and/or improve stockholder value. If we pursue product commercialization opportunities as part of our long-term strategic plan, we cannot assure you that we can successfully develop this business. In accordance with our strategic plan, we intend to explore opportunities to enter into arrangements with biopharmaceutical companies to provide sales and marketing support services and potentially limited capital in connection with the promotion of pharmaceutical products in exchange for a percentage of product sales. It is likely that these types of arrangements will require us to make a significant upfront investment of our resources and are expected to generate losses in the first year of the contract as program ramp up occurs. In addition, we envision that these types of contracts will have limited termination rights and the compensation we will receive is expected to consist entirely of a percentage of sales of the product, and in certain arrangements we may not receive any compensation unless product sales exceed an agreed upon baseline. There can be no assurance that our forecasts relating to product sales will prove to be accurate. In addition, there are a number of factors that could negatively impact product sales during the term of the contract, including withdrawal of the product from the market, the launch of a therapeutically equivalent generic version of the product, the introduction of a competing product, loss of managed care covered lives, a significant disruption in the manufacture or supply of the product as well as other significant events that could affect sales of the product or the prescription market for the product. Therefore, the revenue we receive, if any, from product sales under these types of arrangements may not be sufficient to offset the costs incurred by us implementing and maintaining these programs. We may make acquisitions in the future which may lead to disruptions to our ongoing business. Historically, we have made a number of acquisitions, and our strategic plan contemplates pursuing new acquisition opportunities. If we are unable to successfully integrate an acquired company, the acquisition could lead to disruptions to our business. The success of an acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to: · assimilate the operations and services or products of the acquired company; · integrate new personnel associated with the acquisition; · retain and motivate key employees; · retain customers; and · minimize the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In the event that the operations of an acquired business do not meet our performance expectations, we may have to restructure the acquired business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business, including goodwill and other intangible assets identified at time of acquisition. In addition, the current market for acquisition targets in our industry is extremely competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, bid for and complete acquisitions necessary or desirable to achieve our goals. If we do not meet performance goals established in our incentive-based arrangements with customers, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into a number of incentive-based arrangements with our pharmaceutical company customers, 11 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) and our strategic plan contemplates an increased focus on these types of arrangements. Under incentive-based arrangements, we are typically paid a lower fixed fee and, in addition, have an opportunity to earn additional compensation upon achieving specific performance metrics with respect to the products being detailed. Typically, these performance metrics relate to targeted sales or prescription volumes, sales force performance metrics or a combination thereof. These types of arrangements transfer some market risk from our customers to us. In addition, these arrangements can result in variability in our incentive-based earnings (and therefore our revenue) due to seasonality of product usage, changes in market share, new product introductions (including the introduction of competing generic products into the market), overall promotional efforts and other market related factors. If we are unable to meet the performance goals established in our incentive-based arrangements, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our service contracts may contain penalty provisions pursuant to which our fixed fees may be significantly reduced if we do not meet certain minimum performance metrics, which may include number and timing of sales calls, physician reach, territory vacancies and/or sales representative turnover. Our industry is highly competitive and our failure to address competitive developments promptly will limit our ability to retain and increase our market share. Our primary competitors for sales and marketing services include in-house sales and marketing departments of pharmaceutical companies, other CSOs and providers of marketing and related services, including medical education and marketing research providers. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the businesses in which we compete and, as the industry continues to evolve, new competitors are likely to emerge. Most of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater capital, personnel and other resources than we have. Increased competition may lead to pricing pressures and competitive practices that could have a material adverse effect on our market share, our ability to source new business opportunities as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the expiration and termination of several significant contracts during 2006 and 2007 and the implementation of our new long-term strategic plan, our historical revenue and results of operations cannot be relied upon as representative of the revenue and results of operations that we may achieve in 2008 and future periods. As noted above, during 2006 and the first half of 2007, we experienced the expiration and termination of several significant contracts, including termination of our AstraZeneca contract sales force agreement effective as of April 30, 2006, the termination of our contract sales force agreement with sanofi-aventis effective as of December 1, 2006, the expiration of our contract sales force agreement with GSK on December 31, 2006 and the expiration of our contract sales force agreement with a large pharmaceutical company customer on May 12, 2007. These four customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately $150.9 million of revenue during 2006 and $15.9 million of revenue during 2007. Unless and until we generate sufficient new business to offset the loss of these contracts, our financial results for previous periods will not be duplicated in future periods, and future revenue and cash flows from operations will be significantly less than in previous periods. In addition, we expect to incur a net loss for 2008 and may incur net losses in future periods. Our senior management is also in the process of implementing our long-term strategic plan. This plan includes, in part, a focus on supplementing our current service offerings with complementary commercialization service offerings to the biopharmaceutical and life sciences industries. To the extent this element of our strategic plan is realized during 2008 and in future periods, these may constitute new service offerings for which there were no comparable financial results during 2006 or 2007. We may also make significant expenditures in connection with any acquisitions that we may pursue in connection with our strategic plan. Additionally, if we pursue product commercialization opportunities as contemplated by our strategic plan, these types of arrangements will require us to incur significant costs with no guarantee that any revenue we would receive from product sales would be sufficient to offset such costs. We may require additional funds in order to implement our strategic plan and evolving business model. In accordance with our strategic plan discussed above, we may require additional funds in order to pursue other business opportunities or meet future operating requirements, develop incremental marketing and sales capabilities; and/or acquire other services businesses. We may seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financing or other arrangements with collaborative partners. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing stockholders may result. As a condition to providing us with additional funds, future investors may demand, and may be granted, rights superior to those of existing stockholders. In addition, any future debt financing we may enter into may require us to comply with specified financial ratios, including ratios 12 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) regarding interest coverage, total leverage, senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. We cannot be certain; however, that additional financing will be available from any of these sources or, if available, will be available on acceptable or affordable terms. If adequate additional funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our strategic initiatives. Product liability claims could harm our business. We could face substantial product liability claims in the event any of the pharmaceutical or other products we have previously marketed or market now or may in the future market are alleged to cause negative reactions or adverse side effects or in the event any of these products causes injury, is alleged to be unsuitable for its intended purpose or is alleged to be otherwise defective. For example, we have been named as a defendant in numerous lawsuits as a result of our detailing of Baycolâ on behalf of Bayer Corporation (Bayer). Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management's attention, or adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our services or products. While we rely on contractual indemnification provisions with our customers to protect us against certain product liability related claims, we cannot assure you that these provisions will be fully enforceable or that they will provide adequate protection against claims intended to be covered. We currently have product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5.0 million but cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient to cover fully all potential claims. Also, adequate insurance coverage might not be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key management personnel to fill critical vacancies. The success of our business also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and experienced financial executives who are in high demand and who often have competitive employment options. Currently, we have a significant vacancy in our executive management. Steven K. Budd, the former president of our sales services segment, resigned effective April 6, 2007. Michael J. Marquard, our Chief Executive Officer, is currently assuming these responsibilities as we engage in a process to identify Mr. Budd’s successor. Our failure to attract and retain qualified individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business may suffer if we fail to attract and retain qualified sales representatives. The success and growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified pharmaceutical sales representatives. During 2006 and 2007, we experienced an unusually high turnover rate among our sales representatives due to the expiration and early termination of a number of significant sales force arrangements. There is intense competition for pharmaceutical sales representatives from CSOs and pharmaceutical companies. On occasion, our customers have hired the sales representatives that we trained to detail their products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we cannot attract and retain qualified sales personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our sales services business and our ability to perform under our existing sales force contracts will be impaired. Changes in governmental regulation could negatively impact our business operations. The pharmaceutical and life sciences industries are subject to a high degree of governmental regulation. Significant changes in these regulations affecting the services we provide, including pharmaceutical product promotional and marketing research services, physician interaction programs and medical educational services, could result in the imposition of additional restrictions on these types of activities, impose additional costs on us in providing these services to our customers or otherwise negatively impact our business operations. For example, the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) has several new policies, including a revision to ACCME’s definition of “commercial interests”, which may restrict the medical education services provided by our VIM business unit and/or could require us to incur additional time and expense in order to comply with these policies upon becoming effective. Our failure, or that of our customers, to comply with applicable healthcare regulations could limit, prohibit or otherwise adversely impact our business activities. Various laws, regulations and guidelines established by government, industry and professional bodies affect, among other matters, the provision of, licensing, labeling, marketing, promotion, sale and distribution of healthcare services and products, including pharmaceutical products. In particular, the healthcare industry is governed by various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including prohibitions on the payment or 13 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) acceptance of kickbacks or other remuneration in return for the purchase or lease of products that are paid for by Medicare or Medicaid. Sanctions for violating these laws include civil and criminal fines and penalties and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. Although we believe our current business arrangements do not violate these federal and state fraud and abuse laws, we cannot assure you that our business practices will not be challenged under these laws in the future or that a challenge would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our failure, or the failure of our customers, to comply with these laws, regulations and guidelines, or any change in these laws, regulations and guidelines may, among other things, limit or prohibit our or our customers’ current or business activities, subject us or our customers to adverse publicity, increase the cost of regulatory compliance and insurance coverage or subject us or our customers to monetary fines or other sanctions or penalties. If our insurance and self-insurance reserves are insufficient to cover our future liabilities for workers compensation, automobile and general liability and employee health care benefits, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability and employee health care benefits. Although we have reserved for these liabilities not covered by insurance, our reserves are only an estimate based on actuarial data, as well as on historical trends, and any projection of these losses is subject to a high degree of variability and we may not be able to accurately predict the number or value of the claims that occur in the future. In the event that our actual liability exceeds our reserves for any given period, or if we are unable to control rapidly increasing health care costs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our information technology and communications systems fail or we experience a significant interruption in their operation, our reputation, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology and communications systems. The failure of these systems to operate as anticipated could disrupt our business and result in decreased revenue and increased overhead costs. In addition, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Our information technology and communications systems, including the information technology systems and services that are maintained by third party vendors, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fire, terrorist attacks, malicious attacks by computer viruses or hackers, power loss or failure of computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data networks. If these systems or services become unavailable or suffer a security breach, we may expend significant resources to address these problems, and our reputation, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our stock price is volatile and could be further affected by events not within our control, and an investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market for our common stock is volatile. During 2007, our stock traded at a low of $8.56 and a high of $12.40. In 2006, our stock traded at a low of $9.37 and a high of $15.69, and in 2005, our stock traded at a low of $11.12 and a high of $22.26. The trading price of our common stock has been and will continue to be subject to: · volatility in the trading markets generally; · significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · significant changes in our cash and cash equivalent reserves; · announcements regarding our business or the business of our competitors; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · industry and/or regulatory developments; · changes in revenue mix; · changes in revenue and revenue growth rates for us and for our industry as a whole; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; and · statements or changes in opinions, ratings or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate or expect to operate. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our quarterly operating results may vary as a result of a number of factors, including: · the commencement, delay, cancellation or completion of sales and marketing programs; 14 PDI, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K (continued) · regulatory developments; · uncertainty about when, if at all, revenue from any product commercialization arrangements and/or other incentive-based arrangements with our customers will be recognized; · mix of services provided and/or mix of programs during the period; · timing and amount of expenses for implementing new programs and accuracy of estimates of resources required for ongoing programs; · timing and integration of any acquisitions; · changes in regulations related to pharmaceutical companies; and · general economic conditions. In addition, in the case of revenue related to service contracts, we recognize revenue as services are performed, while program costs, other than training costs, are expensed as incurred. For all contracts, training costs are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the life of the contract to which they relate or 12 months. As a result, during the first two to three months of a new contract, we may incur substantial expenses associated with implementing that new program without recognizing any revenue under that contract. In addition, if we pursue product commercialization opportunities as contemplated by our strategic plan, we will incur similar implementation expenses and likely will not be able to recognize revenue from the contract, if any, for an even greater period of time after commencement of these types of programs. This could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and the price of our common stock for the quarters in which these expenses are incurred. For these and other reasons, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Fluctuations in quarterly results could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Our controlling stockholder continues to have effective control of us, which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. John P. Dugan, our chairman, beneficially owns approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Mr. Dugan is able to exercise substantial control over the election of all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including a merger with or into another company, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and amendments to our certificate of incorporation. This ownership concentration will limit our stockholders ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that other stockholders do not view as beneficial, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions, such as providing for three classes of directors, which may make it more difficult to remove our directors and management and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock. This provision could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a future takeover or a change in control, unless the takeover or change in control is approved by our board of directors. We are also subject to laws that may have a similar effect. For example, section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. As a result of the foregoing, it will be difficult for another company to acquire us and, therefore, could limit the price that possible investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, the rights of our common stockholders will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 