D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to the Russian Federation—Legal Risks and Uncertainties—It is not yet clear how the new Strategic Foreign Investment Law will affect us and our foreign shareholders." Strategic Industries Law Pursuant to the Strategic Foreign Investment Law, investments resulting in a control by a foreign entity or a group of entities over a Strategic Company require prior approval from the state authorities. The procedure for issuing such consent involves a special governmental commission on control of foreign investments, or the Governmental Commission, which was established by the Resolution of the 133 Government of Russia dated July 6, 2008 as the body responsible for granting such consents, and the FAS, which is authorized to process applications for consent from foreign investors. "Control" means an ability to determine, directly or indirectly, decisions taken by a Strategic Company, whether through voting at the general shareholders' (participants') meeting of the Strategic Company, participating in the board of directors or management bodies of the Strategic Company, or acting as the external management organization of the Strategic Company, or otherwise. As a result, "control" will generally be deemed to exist if an entity or a group of entities acquires more than 50% of the shares (or participation interest in share capital) of a Strategic Company, or if through contract or securities with voting rights it is able to appoint more than 50% of the members of the board of directors or of the management board of a Strategic Company. Furthermore, if a foreign entity or a group of entities holding securities of a Strategic Company or other entity that exercises control over the Strategic Company becomes a direct or indirect holder of voting shares in an amount that is considered to give it direct or indirect control over the Strategic Company in accordance with the Strategic Foreign Investment Law due to a change in allocation of voting shares pursuant to the procedures provided by Russian law (e.g., as a result of a buy-back of its shares by the relevant company), then such entity or group of entities will have to apply for state approval of its control within three months after it received such control. Reserve Fund Russian legislation requires that each joint stock company establish a reserve fund to be used only to cover the company's losses, redeem the company's bonds and repurchase the company's shares in cases when other funds are not available. Our charter provides for a reserve fund in the amount of 15% of our charter capital, funded through mandatory annual transfers of 5% of our statutory net profits until the reserve fund has reached the required 15%. Disclosure of Information Pursuant to Russian securities legislation, we are required to make the following public disclosures and filings periodically: •filing quarterly reports with the FSFM containing information about us, our shareholders and depositary, the structure of our management bodies, the members of the Board of Directors, our branches and representative offices, our shares, bank accounts and auditors, important developments during the reporting quarter and other information about our financial and business activity and disclosing the same on our website on the same basis; •filing with the FSFM and publishing any information concerning material facts and changes in our financial and business activity, including our reorganization, certain changes in the amount of assets, decisions on share issuances, certain changes in ownership and shareholding as well as shareholder resolutions; •disclosing information on various stages of share placement, issuance and registration through publication of certain data as required by the securities regulations; •disclosing our charter and internal corporate governance documents on our website; •disclosing our annual report and annual financial statements prepared in accordance with RAS; •filing with the FSFM on a quarterly basis a list of our affiliated persons and disclosing the same on our website, on the same basis; and •other information as required by applicable Russian securities legislation. 134 General Shareholders' Meeting Procedure The powers of a shareholders' meeting are set forth in the Joint Stock Companies Law and in our charter. We hold an annual shareholders' meeting and extraordinary shareholders' meetings pursuant to the charter and our Regulations on General Shareholders' Meetings. A shareholders' meeting may not decide issues that are not included in the list of its powers by the Joint Stock Companies Law. Among issues that the shareholders have the exclusive power to decide are: •charter amendments; •reorganization or liquidation; •election and removal of members of the Board of Directors; •determination of the number, nominal value and class/type of authorized shares and the rights granted by such shares; •changes in our charter capital; •appointment and removal of the external auditor and of the members of the Audit Commission; •approval of certain interested party transactions and major transactions; •distribution of profits and losses, including approval of dividends; •redemption by us of issued shares in cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •approval of certain internal documents and corporate records; •participation in commercial or industrial groups or other associations of commercial entities; and •other issues, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law. Voting at a shareholders' meeting is generally based on the principle of one vote per ordinary share, with the exception of the election of the Board of Directors, which is done through cumulative voting. Decisions are generally passed by a majority vote of the voting shares present at a shareholders' meeting. However, Russian law and our charter require a three-quarters majority vote of the voting shares present at a shareholders' meeting to approve, among other things, the following: •charter amendments; •reorganization or liquidation; •major transactions involving assets in excess of 50% of the balance sheet value of our assets; •determination of the number, nominal value and type of authorized shares and the rights granted by such shares; •decrease of the charter capital through the reduction in the nominal value of our shares; •repurchase by us of our issued shares; •any issuance of shares or securities convertible into ordinary shares by closed subscription; or •issuance by open subscription of ordinary shares or securities convertible into ordinary shares, in each case, constituting more than 25% of the number of issued ordinary shares. The quorum requirement for our shareholders' meeting is met if shareholders (or their representatives) accounting for more than 50% of the issued voting shares are present. If the 50% quorum requirement is not met, another shareholders' meeting with the same agenda may (and, in case of an annual shareholders' meeting, must) be scheduled and the quorum requirement is satisfied if 135 shareholders (or their representatives) accounting for at least 30% of the issued voting shares are present at that meeting. According to our charter, the annual shareholders' meeting must be convened by the Board of Directors between May 1 and June 30 of each year, and the agenda must include the following items: •election of the members of the Board of Directors; •approval of the annual report and the annual financial statements, including the balance sheet and profit and loss statement; •approval of distribution of profits, including approval of annual dividends, and losses, if any; •appointment of an independent auditor; and •appointment of the members of the Audit Commission. A shareholder or group of shareholders owning in the aggregate at least 2% of the issued voting shares may introduce proposals for the agenda of the annual shareholders' meeting and may nominate candidates for the Board of Directors and the Audit Commission. According to our charter, any agenda proposals or nominations must be provided to us no later than 60 calendar days after the preceding financial year end. Extraordinary shareholders' meetings may be called by the Board of Directors on its own initiative, or at the request of the Audit Commission, the independent auditor or a shareholder or group of shareholders owning in the aggregate at least 10% of the issued voting shares as of the date of the request. Such requests shall be made in the manner and within time periods provided for in the Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meetings. Such extraordinary meeting should be held not later than 40 days following the day when the request was made. However, if the proposed agenda includes the election of our Board of Directors, such extraordinary shareholders' meeting should be held within 70 days following the day on which the request was made. A general meeting of shareholders may be held in a form of a meeting or by absentee ballot. The form of a meeting contemplates the adoption of resolutions by the general meeting of shareholders through the attendance of the shareholders or their authorized representatives for the purpose of discussing and voting on issues of the agenda, provided that if the ballot is mailed to shareholders for participation at a meeting convened in such form, the shareholders may complete and mail the ballot back to the company without personally attending the meeting. A general meeting of the shareholders by absentee ballot envisages collecting shareholders' opinions on issues on the agenda by means of a written poll. The following issues cannot be decided by a shareholders' meeting by absentee ballot: •election of the members of the Board of Directors; •election of the members of Audit Commission; •approval of our independent auditor; and •approval of the annual report, the annual financial statements, including balance sheet, profit and loss statement and any distribution of profits, including approval of annual dividends, and losses, if any. Notice and Participation All shareholders entitled to participate in a general shareholders' meeting must be notified of the meeting, whether the meeting is to be held in the form of a meeting or by absentee ballot, no less than 30 days prior to the date of the meeting, and such notification shall specify the agenda for the meeting. 136 However, if it is an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect the Board of Directors, shareholders must be notified at least 70 days prior to the date of the meeting. Only those items that were set out in the agenda to shareholders may be voted upon at a general shareholders' meeting. The list of shareholders entitled to participate in a general shareholders' meeting is to be compiled on the basis of data in the shareholders register on the date established by the Board of Directors, which date may neither be earlier than the date of adoption of the board resolution to hold a general shareholders' meeting nor more than 50 days before the date of the meeting (or, in the case of an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect the Board of Directors, not less than 85 days before the date of the meeting). In the event that the shareholders are participating in the meeting by submitting a written ballot reflecting the shareholder's vote on the agenda items, the list of shareholders entitled to take part in such meeting should be prepared at least 35 days prior to the date of such meeting. Under our charter, shareholders entitled to participate in shareholders' meetings include (i) holders of our fully paid ordinary shares and (ii) holders of our fully paid preferred shares (in the event there is a particular item in the meeting's agenda on which the preferred shares are entitled to vote or if holders of preferred shares became entitled to vote on all issues within the competence of the shareholders' meeting due to a decision not to pay dividends in whole or in part on preferred shares). The right to participate in a general meeting of shareholders may be exercised by a shareholder as follows: •by personally participating in the discussion of agenda items and voting thereon; •by sending an authorized representative to participate in the discussion of agenda items and to vote thereon; •by submitting a written ballot reflecting the shareholder's voting on the agenda items; or •by delegating the right to submit such written ballot to an authorized representative. We are required to grant to our shareholders access to information, including our annual report, audited financial statements (balance sheet and profits and loss statement) and auditor's report, information on candidates to the Board of Directors, and any draft amendments or modifications to our charter, in advance of the shareholders' meeting. Shareholders may participate in a shareholders' meeting either in person or by proxy. Board of Directors The Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter provides for the election of the entire Board of Directors at each annual general shareholders' meeting. The Board of Directors is elected through cumulative voting, as provided for in the Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meeting and the Regulations on the Board of Directors, or the Board Regulations. Under cumulative voting, each shareholder may cast an aggregate number of votes equal to the number of shares held by such shareholder multiplied by the number of persons on the Board of Directors, and the shareholder may give all such votes to one candidate or spread them between two or more candidates. Before the expiration of their term, the directors may be removed as a group at any time without cause by a majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. While there is not any age limit set for the retirement of directors, each member of the Board of Directors may at any time resign voluntarily with a written notice to all other members of the Board of Directors and to us. In such event, the authority of the remaining members of our Board of Directors will not terminate. However, in the event that the membership of the Board of Directors falls below the half of its initial membership, the Board of Directors must adopt a decision to convene an extraordinary shareholders' meeting to elect a new Board of Directors. 137 Our charter provides that Management Board members may not constitute more than one quarter of the Board of Directors and that the General Director may not also be the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is elected by a simple majority of the members of the Board of Directors and may be re-elected at any time by members of the Board of Directors. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires at least a five-member Board of Directors for all joint stock companies, at least a seven-member Board of Directors for a joint stock company with more than 1,000 holders of voting shares, and at least a nine-member Board of Directors for a joint stock company with more than 10,000 holders of voting shares. Only natural persons (as opposed to legal entities) are entitled to sit on the Board. Members of the Board of Directors are not required to be our shareholders. The actual number of directors is determined by our charter or a decision of the shareholders' meeting. Our charter provides that the Board of Directors shall consist of eleven members. The Board of Directors may be convened by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on his/her own initiative or by request of any member of the Board of Directors, the Audit Commission, our external auditor, the General Director or any shareholder or group of shareholders owning at least 2% of our voting shares. A quorum of the Board of Directors is reached if more than half of the elected members are present at the meeting. Each member of the Board of Directors has one vote which may not be assigned to another member or any other person. The Joint Stock Companies Law generally prohibits the Board of Directors from acting on issues that fall within the exclusive competence of the general shareholders' meeting. Our Board of Directors has the power to perform our general management, and to decide, among others, the following issues: •determination of our business priorities, including approval of our budgets, strategies and development plans; •convening annual and extraordinary shareholders' meetings, except in certain circumstances specified in the Joint Stock Companies Law; •approval of the agenda of a shareholders' meeting and determination of the record date for shareholders entitled to participate in a shareholders' meeting; •placement of our bonds and other securities in cases specified in the Joint Stock Companies Law; •determination of the price of our property and securities to be placed or repurchased, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •repurchase of our shares, bonds and other securities in certain cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •increasing the charter capital by issuing additional shares within the limits of the authorized charter capital as specified in our charter; •election and removal of the General Director and the members of the Management Board; •approval of material contract terms concluded with the General Director and the members of the Management Board; •recommendations on the amount of remuneration and compensation to be paid to members of the Audit Commission and approval of the terms of agreement with an independent auditor on audit services, including determination of the fees payable for the services of an independent auditor; •recommendations on the amount of the dividend on shares and the payment procedure thereof; 138 •the use of the reserve fund and other funds; •approval of internal documents, except for those documents whose approval falls within the competence of the shareholders or executive bodies; •the creation and liquidation of branches and representative offices; •approval of major and interested party transactions in certain cases provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law; •appointment of the share registrar; •approval of decisions and prospectuses on share issuances and reports on the results of such share issuances; •creation of the committees of the Board of Directors; and •other issues, as provided for by the Joint Stock Companies Law and our charter. Our charter generally requires a majority vote of the directors present for an action to pass, with the exception of actions for which Russian legislation requires a unanimous vote or a majority vote of the disinterested and independent directors, as described therein. A Board meeting is considered duly assembled and legally competent to act when half of the number of elected directors is present. Pursuant to our charter, any issues concerning the legal status of our Board of Directors that are not covered by the charter shall be governed by the Board Regulations adopted by the shareholders' meeting by a simple majority of votes of shareholders participating in the meeting. Interested Party Transactions Under the Joint Stock Companies Law, certain transactions defined as "interested party transactions" require approval by disinterested directors or shareholders of the company. "Interested party transactions" include transactions involving a member of the Board of Directors or member of any executive body of the company (including the company's chief executive officer and/or the company's managing organization), any person that owns, together with any affiliates, at least 20% of a company's issued voting stock or any person who is able to direct the actions of the company, if that person and/or that person's spouse, parents, children, adoptive parents or children, brothers or sisters or affiliates, is/are: •a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary; •the owner of at least 20% of the issued voting shares of a legal entity that is a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary; or •a member of the Board of Directors or a member of any management body of a company that is a party to, or beneficiary of, a transaction with the company, whether directly or as a representative or intermediary, or a member of the Board of Directors or of any management body of a management organization of such a company. The Joint Stock Companies Law requires that an interested party transaction by a company with more than 1,000 voting shareholders be approved by a majority vote of the independent directors of the company who are not interested in the transaction. For purposes of this rule, an "independent director" is a person who is not, and within the year preceding the decision to approve the transaction was not, the general director, a member of any executive body or an affiliate of the company, or a member of the Board of Directors or of any management body of the company's management organization. Additionally, such person's spouse, parents, children, adoptive parents or children, 139 brothers or sisters may not occupy positions in the executive bodies of the company or its management organization. For companies with 1,000 or fewer voting shareholders, an interested party transaction must be approved by a majority vote of the directors who are not interested in the transaction if the number of these directors is sufficient to constitute a quorum. Approval by a majority of shareholders who are not interested in the transaction is required if: •the value of such transaction or a number of interrelated transactions is 2% or more of the balance sheet value of the company's assets determined under RAS; •the transaction or a number of interrelated transactions involves the issuance, by subscription, of voting shares or securities convertible into voting shares, or secondary market sale of such securities, in an amount exceeding 2% of the company's issued voting stock; •the number of directors who are not interested in the transaction is not sufficient to constitute a quorum; or •all the members of the Board of Directors of the company are interested parties, or none of them is an independent director. Approval of an interested party transaction may not be required until the next annual shareholders' meeting if such transaction is substantially similar to transactions concluded by the company and the interested party in the ordinary course of business before such party became an interested party with respect to the transaction. The approval of interested party transactions is not required in the following instances: •the company has only one shareholder that simultaneously performs the functions of the executive body of the company; •all shareholders of the company are deemed interested in such transactions; •the transactions arise from the shareholders executing their preemptive rights to purchase newly issued shares of the company; •the transactions arise from the repurchase, whether mandatory or not, by the company of its issued shares; •the company merges with another company, and the latter owns more than three-fourths of the voting capital stock of the company; or •the company enters into a transaction that is mandatory for the company under Russian law and must be concluded on the basis of fixed prices and tariffs adopted by a competent governmental body. If all members of the Board of Directors are deemed to be interested in the transaction and/or are not independent directors, the transaction is required to be approved by the shareholders' meeting by a majority vote of shareholders who are not interested in the transaction. As we currently have over 1,000 shareholders holding voting shares in us, decisions on the approval of interested party transactions are typically adopted by our Board of Directors by a majority of votes of disinterested (i.e., who do not have an interest in the transaction) independent directors. Major Transactions The Joint Stock Companies Law defines a "major transaction" as a transaction, or a series of transactions, involving the acquisition or disposal, or the possibility of disposal (whether directly or indirectly) of property having the value of 25% or more of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company as determined under RAS, with the exception of transactions conducted in the ordinary 140 course of business or transactions involving the placement of ordinary shares, or securities convertible into ordinary shares. Major transactions involving assets ranging from 25% to 50% of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company require unanimous approval by all members of the Board of Directors or, failing to receive such approval, a simple majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Major transactions involving assets in excess of 50% of the balance sheet value of the assets of a company require a three-quarters' majority vote of a shareholders' meeting. Change in Control Anti-takeover Protection Russian legislation requires the following: •A person intending to acquire 30% or more of an open joint stock company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares (including, for such purposes, shares already owned by such person and its affiliates), will be entitled to make a public tender offer to other holders of such shares or securities convertible into such shares. •A person that has acquired 30% or more of the totality of an open joint- stock company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares (including, for such purposes, shares already owned by such person and its affiliates, but excluding shares that were acquired pursuant to previous voluntary or mandatory offers) will generally be required to make, within 35 days of acquiring such shares, a public tender offer for other shares of the same class and for securities convertible into such shares, at the price which is not less than the price determined based on a weighted market price of the shares for the previous six months, or on a price not less than the market price which must be determined by an independent appraiser if the shares have no or insufficient trading history. From the moment of acquisition of 30% or more of the shares until the moment of sending of an offer to the security holders, the person making an offer and its affiliates will be able to register for quorum and vote only 30% of the shares of the company (regardless of the size of their actual holdings). These rules are also applied (or reapplied) to acquisitions resulting in a person or a group of persons owning more than 50% and 75% of a company's outstanding shares. •A person that as a result of an offer described in either of the two preceding paragraphs becomes (individually or with its affiliates) the owner of more than 95% of the company's ordinary shares and voting preferred shares, must buy out the remaining shares of the company as well as other securities convertible into such shares upon request of the holders of such shares or other securities, and may require such holders to sell such shares and other securities, at a price based on the prices of the preceding acquisition by the offeror. •An offer of the kind described in any of the preceding three paragraphs must be accompanied by a bank guarantee of payment. If the company is publicly traded, prior notice of the offer must be filed with the FSFM; otherwise, notice must be filed with the FSFM no later than the date of the offer. The FSFM may order amendments to the terms of the offer (including price) in order to bring them into compliance with the rules. •Once such an offer has been made, competing offers for the same securities can be made by third parties and, in certain circumstances, acceptance of the initial offer may be withdrawn by the security holders who choose to accept such competing offer. From the making of such an offer until 20 days after its expiry (which period may in certain cases exceed 100 days) the company's shareholders meeting will have the sole power to make decisions on charter capital increase, issuance of securities, approval of certain major transactions, and on certain other significant matters. 141 The above rules may be supplemented through rulemaking by the FSFM, which may result in a wider, narrower or more specific interpretation of these rules by the government and judicial authorities, as well as by market participants. Approval of the Russian Federal Anti-Monopoly Service Pursuant to the Federal Law on Competition, acquisitions of voting stock capital of a joint stock company involving (1) companies with a combined value of assets or annual revenues exceeding a certain threshold under RAS, or (2) companies registered as having more than a 35% share of a certain commodity market, and which would result in a shareholder (or a group of affiliated shareholders) holding more than 25%, 50% or 75% of the voting capital stock of such company, or in a transfer between such companies of assets or rights to assets, the value of which exceeds a certain amount, are subject to approval in advance by the FAS. Disclosure of Ownership Under Russian law, a holder of our ordinary shares will be required to publicly disclose an acquisition of 5% or more of the issued ordinary shares of the company, as well any change in the amount of ordinary shares held by such holder, if, as a result of such change, the percentage of ordinary shares held by the holder becomes greater or lesser than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 50% or 75% of the issued ordinary shares of the company. Notification of Foreign Ownership Foreign persons registered as individual entrepreneurs in Russia and foreign companies, regardless of whether they are registered with the Russian tax authorities that acquire shares in a Russian joint stock company may need to notify the Russian tax authorities within one month following such acquisition. However, the procedure for notifying the Russian tax authorities by foreign companies that are not registered with the Russian tax authorities at the time of their share acquisitions is unclear. C. Material Contracts The following summarizes our material contracts, other than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, for the two years prior to the date of filing this annual report. Since the following is only a summary, you are urged to review the material contracts filed as exhibits to this annual report (or incorporated by reference) to learn their complete terms. Agreements regarding the new system of interaction between Russian operators and subscribers Interconnection Agreements with IRCs Pursuant to the Law on Communications and the Interconnection Rules, we have entered into telecommunications network interconnection agreements with all operators interconnected to our network. These agreements govern the legal relationships between the parties, define their respective rights and obligations, and set forth the cost of services and the manner in which the services are to be provided. Because we are considered an operator occupying a "significant position" in the market, the interconnection agreements must meet certain requirements established by law, including the obligation to: (i) establish equal interconnection terms for operators providing similar services; (ii) publish the interconnection terms, including technical, economic and informational provisions; and (iii) operate using the tariffs established by the FST. Each interconnection agreement we enter into with an IRC requires the IRC to provide traffic transit services (i.e., traffic origination and termination services) via its own regional network and to 142 provide us with certain information with respect to end users of our DLD and ILD services. In turn, we are required to provide the IRC with interconnection transit services for traffic from mobile network operators transmitting traffic via the IRC's telecommunications network. Tariffs for the transmission of mobile operator traffic are not regulated and, therefore, the price for these services is set by us. Our obligations under an interconnection agreement include: (i) providing interconnection services; (ii) paying for the provision of subscriber information; (iii) accounting, billing and payment for traffic transit services; and (iv) ensuring quality of service. In addition, we are required to provide traffic transit services from mobile cellular network operators transmitting traffic via the IRC's network. The IRC's obligations under the contract are to: (i) provide traffic transit services; (ii) pay for interconnection services; and (iii) supply numbering information for the network for which our DLD and ILD services are provided. Traffic transit services differ according to the destination and place of transmission. When DLD and ILD services are provided to end users of an operator interconnected to an IRC's network, the IRC provides us with call termination and origination services to or from the interconnected operator's network. When DLD and ILD telephone services are provided to an IRC's end users, IRCs provide us with call termination and origination services to or from the IRC`s network. In this case, a compensation surcharge established by the regulatory authority is added to the cost of the call origination. Settlements are conducted on the basis of information prepared by the parties in accordance with the terms of the agreement. We provide information on the volumes of interconnection and traffic transit services. The IRC provides information on the numbering capacities of its own network and the networks of interconnected operators, and updated information on network subscribers. The parties each prepare statements of services rendered, which are used to determine payment obligations. Each interconnection agreement sets out a procedure for resolving disputes. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the option to renew by mutual agreement of the parties. The agreements may also be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable law. The full texts of the interconnection agreements entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. Service Provision Agreements with IRCs Prior to 2006, we were not required to bill and collect payments from end users for long-distance services or to provide other customer services directly to end users throughout Russia. As a result, we did not have sufficient staff and other resources to process, prepare and analyze source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills and collect payments by January 1, 2006 when the new regulations came into effect requiring us to provide DLD and ILD services directly to end users throughout Russia. We therefore entered into a series of agreements that allow us to utilize the resources of other companies possessing the necessary capabilities, including, among others, the IRCs of Svyazinvest. The Service Provision Agreements we entered into with IRCs are essentially agency agreements, under which the agent, for a fee, performs a number of functions associated with providing DLD and ILD services to end users. Relations of the parties under the Service Provision Agreements are subject to the Russian Civil Code, as well as regulations regarding the quality and procedures for providing DLD/ILD services to end users. 143 Pursuant to the Service Provision Agreements, an IRC undertakes, for a fee, to perform the following services on our behalf: (i) collecting payments from subscribers; (ii) handling claims by users; (iii) handling information requests from end users; (iv) accepting and handling orders through the order-based and direct service system; (v) processing billing for communications services; (vi) preparing, printing, storing and delivering bills and payment documents to users; (vii) inform end users of our business name, as the operator providing DLD and ILD services; (viii) keep records of communications services provided to end users; and (ix) record payments and amounts owed for services rendered. In addition, under the Service Provision Agreements, IRCs provide us with reports in accordance with the format required by us. Under these Service Provision Agreements, we are required to establish and notify the IRC and end users of communications services tariffs, pay for services rendered under the agreements and issue powers of attorney to the IRC's representatives authorizing them to perform legal and other actions. The settlements procedure under the Service Provision Agreements is as follows: on a monthly basis, the IRC transfers funds received from end users for services rendered, which are recorded in the agent's report and other report documents. The agent's fee is determined on the basis of the agent's report and paid to the IRC. To ensure correct settlements, rules are established for verifying compliance by the IRC with the terms of the agreement. Amounts owed by end users for services rendered are considered our receivables. The agreements also define requirements for handling claims by users and establish the manner in which the parties shall handle user claims and complaints in connection with the provision or non-provision of communications services. For the purpose of compliance with statutory accounting requirements, the IRC ensures the compilation of all necessary reporting and accounting documents, including sales ledgers and purchase ledgers. For compliance with VAT legislation, the agreements include a special section describing the interaction of the parties. The agreements provide penalties to protect the parties from bad faith performance of obligations by the other party. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the possibility of renewal if the parties agree, and may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable Russian legislation. The full texts of SPAs entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. Agency Agreements with IRCs We entered into individual Agency Agreements with the IRCs, pursuant to which the IRC undertakes, on our behalf and at our expense, to enter into written agreements for the provision of long-distance services with corporate users and Service Provision Agreements with operators interconnected to the IRC's network. These agreements are concluded for a term of one year with the possibility of renewal if the parties agree, and may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties, pursuant to a court decision or on other grounds provided for by applicable Russian legislation. The full texts of the Agency Agreements entered into with IRCs are included as exhibits to this annual report. RTComm.RU Acquisition As of December 31, 2007, we held 31.1% of the voting shares of RTComm.RU and, therefore, had significant influence over it. In March 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 68.4% interest in RTComm.RU from Synterra and, as a result, we gained control over RTComm.RU on July 1, 2008 and currently own a 99.5% interest. The cost of the additional investment was RUB 1,560 million. We accounted for the acquisition of RTComm.RU using the purchase method in accordance with the provisions of IFRS No. 3 "Business combinations". We began consolidating the results of operations and financial position of RTComm.RU on July 1, 2008. 144 Sale of our stake in Golden Telecom In February 2008, we sold our stake in Golden Telecom for a total cash consideration of approximately $463.8 million. In February 2008, we accepted an offer by Lillian Acquisition, Inc., a subsidiary of Vimpelcom, to purchase our stake in Golden Telecom. The total cash consideration from the sale of our 10.97% equity interest, or 4,417,055 shares, in Golden Telecom amounted to $463.8 million. Profit from this transaction before tax and the related deferred tax effect amounted to RUB 8,666 million and RUB 2,230 million, respectively, and were recognized as a gain on sale of investments and tax charge in the accompanying consolidated statement of income for the period ended December 31, 2008. The net effect of RUB 6,436 million, which was previously recorded as unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments as a result of fair value revaluations, was transferred to profit on sale in the accompanying statement of changes in equity during 2008. D. Exchange Controls The Federal Law on Currency Regulation and Currency Control effective since June 18, 2004 sets forth certain restrictions on settlements between residents of Russia with respect to transactions involving foreign securities (including ADRs), including requirements for settlement in Russian rubles. Repatriation of Export Proceeds Russian companies must repatriate 100% of their receivables from the export of goods and services (with a limited number of exceptions concerning, in particular, certain types of secured financing). Restrictions on the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-residents The Federal Law on Foreign Investments in the Russian Federation of July 9, 1999, specifically guarantees foreign investors the right to repatriate their earnings from Russian investments. However, the evolving Russian exchange control regime may materially affect your ability to do so. Currently, ruble dividends on ordinary shares may be converted into U.S. dollars without restriction. However, the ability to convert rubles into U.S. dollars is also subject to the availability of U.S. dollars in Russia's currency markets. Although there is an existing market within Russia for the conversion of rubles into U.S. dollars, including the interbank currency exchange and over-the-counter and currency futures markets, the further development of this market is uncertain. E. Taxation The following discussion describes the material United States federal and Russian income and withholding tax consequences relating to an investment in the ADSs or ordinary shares and is based on: •the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and judicial and administrative interpretations thereof; •Russian legislation; and •the United States-Russia income tax treaty (and judicial and administrative interpretations thereof); all as in effect on the date of this document. All of the foregoing are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis, after the date of this document. This discussion is also based, in part, on representations of the depositary, and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement and any related agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms. The discussion with respect to 145 Russian legislation is based on our understanding of current Russian law and Russian tax rules, which are subject to frequent change and varying interpretations. We believe, and the following discussion assumes, that for United States federal income tax purposes, we were not a passive foreign investment company for our taxable year ending in 2008. Passive foreign investment company determinations are made annually and may involve facts that are not within our control. If we were to be a passive foreign investment company, materially adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to an investor who is a "United States person" as defined in the Code. The following discussion is not intended as tax advice to any particular investor. It is also not a complete analysis or listing of all potential United States federal or Russian income and withholding tax consequences to you of ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs. We urge you to consult your own tax advisor regarding the specific United States federal, state, and local and Russian tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs under your own particular factual circumstances. Russian Income and Withholding Tax Considerations The following discussion applies to you if you are a U.S. holder of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a "United States person," as the term is defined in the Code and a resident of the United States for purposes of the Convention between the United States of America and the Russian Federation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (the "United States—Russia income tax treaty") and are fully eligible for benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty, a "U.S. holder." Subject to certain provisions of the United States-Russia income tax treaty relating to limitations on benefits, you generally will be a resident of the United States for treaty purposes that is entitled to treaty benefits if you are: •subject, under the laws of the United States, to U.S. tax (other than taxes in respect only of income from sources in the United States or capital situated therein) by reason of your domicile, residence, citizenship, place of incorporation, or any other similar criterion (and, for income derived by a partnership, trust or estate, residence is determined in accordance with the residence of the person subject to tax with respect to such income); and •not also a resident of the Russian Federation for purposes of the United States-Russia income tax treaty. The benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty discussed herein generally are not available to U.S. persons who hold ADSs or ordinary shares in connection with the conduct of a business in the Russian Federation through a permanent establishment as defined in the United States-Russia income tax treaty. Subject to certain exceptions, a U.S. person's permanent establishment under the United States-Russia income tax treaty is a fixed place of business through which such person carries on business activities in the Russian Federation (generally including, but not limited to, a place of management, a branch, an office and a factory). Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person may be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the Russian Federation as a result of activities carried on in the Russian Federation through agents of such U.S. person. This summary does not address the treatment of holders described in this paragraph. The Russian tax law does not contain any specific provisions establishing principles of withholding income tax in relation to ADSs. Recently, the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation issued a number of clarification letters in which the Ministry stated that ADS holders should be treated as the beneficial owners of dividends payable on the underlying shares for the purpose of applying the relevant double tax treaty provisions. However, opinions expressed in these letters do not bind the Russian tax authorities or Russian courts. Furthermore, there is no 146 certainty as to how the Russian tax authorities or Russian courts will ultimately treat ADSs arrangements. In addition, local tax inspectors have considerable autonomy and often interpret tax rules without regard to the intended or clear meaning of the law. Both the substantive provisions of Russian tax law and the interpretation and application of those provisions by the Russian tax authorities may be subject to more rapid and unpredictable change than in jurisdictions with more developed capital markets. In the absence of any specific provisions in tax legislation with respect to the concept of beneficial ownership and taxation of income to beneficial owners, it is unclear how the Russian tax authorities will ultimately treat the U.S. holders. In such circumstances there can be no assurance that U.S. holders will be in a position to take advantage of the benefits provided by the United States-Russia income tax treaty. Subject to the above, U.S. holders should be eligible for double tax treaty benefits to the extent the Russian treaty clearance procedures are performed. In this connection, the custodian should provide the issuer with the information on ADS holders prior to the dividends payment date. Pursuant to private clarifications of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, such information, should, inter alia, include: •information on actual ADS holders; •information on the quantity of the deposited shares attributable to each particular ADS holder; and •information on the amount of dividends payable to each ADS holder. On an annual basis, the custodian should also provide the issuer with certificates confirming tax residency of the ADS holders. It is currently unclear whether custodians will be willing or able to provide tax residency certificates for ADS holders or to implement any procedures for holders to utilize benefits provided for by applicable tax treaties. Thus, while a U.S. holder may technically be entitled to benefit from the provisions of the United States-Russia income tax treaty, in practice, it may be difficult, time consuming or impossible from an administrative point of view to obtain such treaty relief. In the event that the Russian tax authorities do not treat U.S. holders as the beneficial owners of the underlying shares, the benefits under of the United States-Russia income tax treaty would not be available to U.S. holders. Taxation of Dividends Dividends paid to U.S. holders generally will be subject to Russian withholding tax at a 15% rate. This tax may be reduced to 5% or to 10% under the United States-Russia income tax treaty for U.S. holders: a 5% rate applies for U.S. holders who are legal entities owning 10% or more of the company's voting stock (or if there is no voting stock, at least 10% of the statutory capital), and a 10% rate applies to dividends paid to all other U.S. holders, including individuals and legal entities owning less than 10% of the company's voting stock or less than 10% of the statutory capital (if there is no voting stock). The above reduced rates should apply to the extent that a U.S. holder is entitled to benefit from the relevant double tax treaty and provided that the Russian tax documentation requirements are satisfied (i.e., annual advance confirmation of U.S. holder's tax residency and, with respect to a U.S. holder that is an individual, a confirmation of the income received and the taxes paid in the country of tax residence of such U.S. holder as confirmed by the relevant tax authorities of such country). See also "—United States Russia Income Tax Treaty Clearance Procedures" below. If the appropriate documentation has not been provided to us before the dividend payment date, we are required to withhold tax at the full rate, and U.S. holders qualifying for a reduced rate under the United States-Russia income tax treaty then would be required to file claims for refund with the 147 Russian tax authorities within three years from the withholding date for U.S. holders which are legal entities, and within one year from the end of the year in which the withholding occurred for individual U.S. holders. There is significant uncertainty regarding the availability and timing of such refunds. Procedures for advance treaty clearance are not explicitly provided for by current Russian legislation with respect to a U.S. holder that is an individual. As a result, it is likely that for a U.S. holder that is an individual, a reduction of withholding income tax provided by the United States-Russia income tax treaty cannot be obtained. If a non-resident individual holder does not obtain double tax treaty relief at the time the dividend income is paid to such non-resident individual holder, and income tax is withheld by us, such non-resident individual holder may apply for a refund within one year from the end of the tax period in which the tax was withheld. However, there can be no assurance that such double tax treaty relief (or refund of any taxes withheld) will be available for a non-resident holder based on, inter alia, the above uncertainty as to the treatment of the holders of the ADSs as the beneficial owners of dividend income from the underlying shares and as to the applicability of double tax treaty benefits to U.S holders. Taxation of Capital Gains If a U.S. holder that is a legal person or an organization disposes of ADSs (otherwise than through a permanent establishment in Russia) and the proceeds from such disposal are from a Russian source, the gain on such disposal may be subject to withholding tax in Russia at a rate of 20%. Russian source income is defined by the Russian tax law as gains received from the sale of shares (participation interests) in Russian companies, if immovable property, which under Russian law includes real property and certain other assets, situated in Russia constitutes more than 50% of our assets. The tax should be calculated either on the basis of capital gains realized upon the sale or the total amount of income received depending on whether the documentation supporting the costs incurred upon acquisition is available. Regardless of whether the income is received from a Russian source or whether a U.S. holder is entitled to benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty, a U.S. holder which is a legal entity should not be subject to any Russian income or withholding taxes in connection with the sale, exchange, or other disposition of ADSs if immovable property situated in Russia constitutes 50% or less of our assets or if ADSs are sold to purchasers via foreign exchanges where ADSs are legally circulated. The above withholding tax rates are subject to any available double tax treaty relief. In order to enjoy the benefits of an applicable double tax treaty, documentary evidence is required to be provided to the Russian payer of the income prior to payment being made to confirm the applicability of the double tax treaty under which benefits are claimed. U.S. holders that are legal entities should consult their own tax advisors with respect to this possibility. A U.S. holder should generally not be subject to any Russian taxes in respect of capital gains or other income realized on the sale or other disposition of the ADSs outside of Russia, provided that the proceeds of such sale, redemption or other disposal of the ADSs or the shares are not received from a source within Russia. Even if a sale or other disposal by a U.S. holder to another non-resident holder could be regarded as Russian source income, there is currently no mechanism for withholding of the Russian tax due. U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of the receipt of proceeds from a source outside of Russia in respect of a disposal of the ADSs. The taxation of income of a U.S. holder that is an individual depends on whether this income is received from Russian or non-Russian sources. Russian tax law does not give a definition of how the "source of income" should be determined with respect to the sale of securities, other than that income from the sale of securities "in Russia" should be considered Russian source income. As there is no further definition as to what should be considered a sale "in Russia," the Russian tax authorities have 148 some discretion to conclude which transactions are considered to take place in Russia based on the place of the transaction, the place of the issuer of the shares or other similar criteria. If proceeds from a disposal of ADSs are received from a Russian source, a U.S. holder who is an individual will generally be subject to tax at a rate of 30%, subject to any available double tax treaty relief, in respect of gross proceeds from such disposal less any available cost deductions (including, inter alia, the cost of acquisition of the ADSs). The Russian tax legislation provides that a non-resident individual is subject to tax but does not explicitly provide for the obligation of the Russian payer of the income to withhold such tax unless such a payer is a broker, a trustee or similar market participant. However, in certain circumstances, if the disposal proceeds are payable by a Russian legal entity, individual entrepreneur or a Russian representative office of a foreign organization, the payer may be required to withhold this tax. There are not, however, any mechanisms for withholding tax established for a Russian resident with respect to the purchase of ADSs via the NYSE or any other foreign exchange. Procedures for advance treaty clearance are not provided for by current Russian legislation with respect to non-resident individual holders. If a U.S. holder that is an individual does not obtain double tax treaty relief at the time the proceeds from the disposal of the ADSs are paid to such individual holder, and income tax is withheld by the Russian payer of such income, such individual U.S. holder may apply for a refund within one year from the end of the tax period in which the tax was withheld. However, there can be no assurance that such double tax treaty relief (or the refund of any taxes withheld) will be available for such a U.S. holder. Non-resident holders who are individuals should consult their own tax advisors with respect to the tax consequences of the receipt of proceeds from a source within Russia in respect of a disposal of ADSs. Where proceeds from the disposal of ADSs are received from a Russian source, in order for the U.S. holder, whether an individual, legal entity or organization, to enjoy the benefits of the United States-Russia income tax treaty, documentary evidence is required to confirm the applicability of the treaty. No procedures currently exist in the Russian tax law for non-resident holders who are individuals to claim treaty benefits prior to the receipt of income; therefore, such non-resident holders may be required to claim a refund of taxes from the Russian tax authorities as discussed below if tax has been withheld by the Russian payer of such income. United States-Russia Income Tax Treaty Clearance Procedures Pursuant to the Russian Tax Code, in order to benefit under the United States-Russia income tax treaty, a U.S. holder that is a legal entity or a custodian acting on behalf of a U.S. holder that is a legal entity should provide to the issuer confirmation issued by the U.S. tax authorities, evidencing the U.S. holder's tax residency in the United States of America prior to the dividends payment date. In order to benefit under the United States-Russian income tax treaty, a U.S. holder that is an individual should provide to the Russian tax authorities confirmation of the U.S. holder's tax residency, a confirmation of the income received and the taxes paid in the U.S. by the relevant U.S. tax authorities. Procedures for advance treaty clearance are not explicitly provided for by current Russian legislation with respect to a U.S. holders that is an individual. However, in some cases it may be possible for a U.S. holder that is an individual to provide required documents to the Russian withholding tax agent and for the Russian withholding agent to discuss the possibility of advance treaty relief with the local tax inspectorate although there is no formal basis for that procedure. The Russian Tax Code does not provide for any further guidance as to the required format of documents confirming tax residency in a foreign jurisdiction. However, the Russian tax authorities provided some additional guidance on this matter, pursuant to which such residency certificates can be issued in the form established under the U.S. law. It is further stated that a tax residency certificate 149 should expressly refer to a period (calendar year) which corresponds to the period in which income is paid to a foreign legal entity. The certificate must be signed and sealed (stamped) by the U.S. tax authority as required in the tax treaty (or by an agency authorized by the competent authority). The above-mentioned documents must be legalized or bear an apostille with a notarized Russian translation attached to it. A U.S. holder may obtain the appropriate certification by mailing completed forms, together with the holder's name, taxpayer identification number, tax return form number and the tax period for which certification is required, and other applicable information, to the United States Internal Revenue Service. The procedures for obtaining a certification are described in greater detail in the instructions to Internal Revenue Service Form 8802. As obtaining the required certification from the Internal Revenue Service may take at least six to eight weeks, U.S. holders should apply for such certification as soon as possible. If tax is withheld by a Russian resident on dividends or other amounts at a rate that is different from the rate provided in the United States-Russia income tax treaty, a U.S. holder may apply for a tax refund by filing the required documents with the local Russian tax inspectorate to which the withholding tax was remitted within three years from the withholding date for U.S. holders which are legal entities, or within one year from the end of the year in which the withholding occurred for individual U.S. holders. The documents to submit should include the appropriate form (1011DT (2002) for non-dividend income and 1012DT (2002) for dividend income), certificate of residence of the foreign holder (IRS Form 6166), a copy of the agreement or other documents substantiating the payment of income, documents confirming the beneficial ownership of the dividends recipient and the transfer of tax to the Russian tax authorities. For a U.S. holder that is an individual, also to the certificate of residence in the United States, the package should additionally include confirmation of the income received and the taxes paid in the U.S. by the relevant U.S. tax authorities. The Russian tax authorities may, in practice, require a wide variety of documentation confirming the right to benefits under the United States-Russia income tax treaty. Such documentation, in practice, may not be explicitly required by the Russian Tax Code. Under the provisions of the Russian Tax Code, the refund of the tax should be effected within one month after the submission of the documents. However, procedures for processing such claims have not been clearly established, and there is significant uncertainty regarding the availability and timing of such refunds. Neither we nor the custodian have or will have any obligation to assist an ADS holder with the completion and filing of any tax forms. The procedures described above may be more complicated with respect to the taxation of the dividend income from the ADSs due to the lack of clarity in the applicable Russian tax law with respect to the treatment of U.S. holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of dividend income from the underlying shares and the applicability of United States-Russia income tax treaty benefits and Russian domestic tax law provisions to U.S. holders. As a result, U.S. holders cannot be assured that tax reductions or refund of tax withheld will be available under the United States-Russia income tax treaty in respect of Russian taxes payable or withheld in respect of the dividends from the ADSs. Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations The following is a general description of the material United States federal income tax consequences that apply to you if you are, for United States federal income tax purposes, a beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares who is an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation (including any entity treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes) created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax regardless of its source, or a trust, if a United States court can exercise primary supervision over the administration 150 of the trust and one or more United States persons can control all substantial trust decisions, or if the trust was in existence on August 20, 1996 and has properly elected to continue to be treated as a United States person. If a partnership (including any entity treated as a partnership for United States federal income tax purposes) is a beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares, the United States federal income tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Since your United States federal income and withholding tax treatment may vary depending upon your particular situation, you may be subject to special rules not discussed below. Special rules will apply, for example, if you are: •an insurance company; •a tax-exempt organization; •a financial institution; •a person subject to the alternative minimum tax; •a person who is a broker-dealer in securities; •an S corporation; •an expatriate subject to Section 877 of the Code; •an owner of, directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10 percent or more of the outstanding ordinary shares; or •an owner holding ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedge, straddle, synthetic security or conversion transaction. In addition, this summary is limited to persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as "capital assets" within the meaning of Section 1221 of the Code and whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar. The discussion below also does not address the effect of any United States state or local tax law or foreign tax law. The United States Treasury has expressed concerns that intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of an ADS and the issuer of the shares underlying the ADS may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the beneficial ownership of the underlying shares. Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of Russian withholding taxes described below and the availability of the reduced tax rate for dividends received by certain non-corporate holders could be affected by actions taken by intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of ADSs and our company if as a result of such actions the holders of ADSs are not properly treated as beneficial owners of the underlying shares and future actions that may be taken by the United States Treasury. Although this matter is not free from doubt, we believe, and the remainder of this discussion assumes, that a holder of an ADS will be treated as the beneficial owner of the underlying ordinary shares represented by such ADS for United States federal income tax purposes. Taxation of Distributions with respect to Ordinary Shares or ADSs For United States federal income tax purposes, the gross amount of a distribution, including the amount of any Russian withholding taxes, with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as a taxable dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, computed in accordance with United States federal income tax principles. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2011, if you are a non-corporate holder such dividends may be taxed at the lower applicable capital gains rate provided that certain conditions are satisfied, including (1) certain holding period requirements are satisfied, (2) either (a) our ADSs continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange (or other national securities exchange that is registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the NASDAQ Stock Market) or (b) we are eligible for the benefits of the 151 United States-Russia income tax treaty, and (3) we are not, for the taxable year in which the dividend was paid, or in the preceding taxable year, a "passive foreign investment company." Non-corporate holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisors as to the applicability of the lower capital gains rate to dividends received with respect to ADSs or ordinary shares. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits will be applied against and will reduce your tax basis in ordinary shares or ADSs and, to the extent in excess of such tax basis, will be treated as gain from a sale or exchange of such ordinary shares or ADSs. You should be aware that we do not intend to calculate our earnings and profits for United States federal income tax purposes and, unless we make such calculations, you should assume that any distributions with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be treated as a dividend, even if such distributions would otherwise be treated as a return of capital or as capital gain pursuant to the rules described above. If you are a corporation, you will not be allowed a deduction for dividends received in respect of distributions on ordinary shares or ADSs, which is generally available for dividends paid by U.S. corporations. If a dividend is paid in rubles, the amount includible in income will be the U.S. dollar value of the dividend, calculated using the exchange rate in effect on the date the dividend is includible in income by you, regardless of whether the payment is actually converted into U.S. dollars. Any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange rate fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend is includible in your income to the date the rubles are converted into U.S. dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss. You may be required to recognize foreign currency gain or loss on the receipt of a refund of Russian withholding tax pursuant to the United States-Russia income tax treaty to the extent the United States dollar value of the refund differs from the dollar equivalent of that amount on the date of receipt of the underlying dividend. Russian withholding tax at the rate applicable to you under the United States-Russia income tax treaty should be treated as a foreign income tax that, subject to generally applicable limitations and conditions, is eligible for credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability or, at your election, may be deducted in computing taxable income. If Russian tax is withheld at a rate in excess of the rate applicable to you under the United States-Russia income tax treaty, you may not be entitled to credits for the excess amount, even though the procedures for claiming refunds and the practical likelihood that refunds will be made available in a timely fashion are uncertain. For United States foreign tax credit purposes, a dividend will be treated as foreign source income and will generally be classified as "passive category income" but could, in certain cases, constitute "general category income." The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit, or deduction in lieu of the foreign tax credit, are complex and you should consult your tax advisors with respect to such rules. Taxation on Sale or Other Taxable Disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADSs The sale or other taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally result in the recognition of gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized on the sale or other disposition and your adjusted tax basis in such ordinary shares or ADSs. Such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares or ADSs have been held for more than one year. If you are a non-corporate holder, such long-term capital gain is generally subject to a reduced rate of United States federal income tax. Limitations may apply to your ability to offset capital losses against ordinary income. Deposits and withdrawals of ordinary shares by you in exchange for ADSs will not result in the realization of gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Gain or loss recognized on the sale or other taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be treated as U.S. source income for foreign tax credit purposes. The use of any foreign tax credits relating to any Russian taxes imposed upon such sale may be limited. You are strongly urged to 152 consult your tax advisors as to the availability of tax credits for any Russian taxes imposed on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs. Information Reporting and Backup Withholding Dividends and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs that are paid in the United States or by a U.S.-related financial intermediary generally will be subject to U.S. information reporting rules and U.S. backup withholding tax (currently at the rate of 28%), unless you are a corporation or other exempt recipient. In addition, you generally will not be subject to backup withholding if you timely provide your taxpayer identification number and other required information and certify among other things that no loss of exemption from backup withholding has occurred. You should consult your tax advisors regarding the application of the U.S. information reporting and backup withholding rules. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability, and you may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely filing an appropriate claim for refund with the Internal Revenue Service. F. Dividends and Paying Agents Not applicable. G. Statement by Experts Not applicable. H. Documents on Display We are subject to the informational requirements of the U.S. Exchange Act, and in accordance therewith file periodic reports and other information with the SEC. These materials, including this annual report and the exhibits hereto filed by us, may be examined without charge at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. These filings are also available at the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Information regarding us is also available on our website at http://www.rt.ru/. Information included on our website does not form part of this annual report. I. Subsidiary Information Not applicable. Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Our significant market risk exposures are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk. Interest rate risk mainly relates to floating rate debt denominated primarily in U.S. dollars and euros. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 83% of our interest bearing loans carried floating interest rates, as compared to approximately 82% as of December 31, 2007. Exchange rate risk relates to our foreign currency indebtedness and, to a lesser extent, our foreign currency denominated cash, receivables and payables and foreign currency denominated revenues and costs. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 89% of our total borrowings were denominated in foreign currencies. We do not use financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency options or forward rate agreements, to hedge these market risks. 153 Our consolidated financial statements are presented in Russian rubles. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 11%, as compared to approximately 10% for the year ended December 31, 2007, of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the Russian ruble, principally in U.S. dollars and euros. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 17% of our costs (excluding depreciation, impairment and bad debt expense) are denominated in currencies other than the Russian ruble, principally SDR and U.S. dollars, as compared to approximately 15% for the year ended December 31, 2007. We receive foreign currency revenues from incoming ILD calls and incur foreign currency expenses for outgoing ILD calls. In 2008, we were a net payer of foreign currency because the volume of outgoing ILD traffic exceeded the volume of incoming ILD traffic and we paid more foreign currency to foreign operators than we received. The net balance denominated in foreign currencies (principally in SDR and U.S. dollars) payable by us to foreign operators was RUB 816 million as of December 31, 2008, as compared to RUB 191 million as of December 31, 2007. To the extent that we are not naturally hedged against changes in exchange rates, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains and losses. We are not engaged in any active hedging of the foreign exchange risk arising out of our operating activities. Interest Rate Sensitivity As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding borrowings of RUB 2,652 million, of which approximately RUB 2,191 million bore interest at floating rates, as compared to outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2007 of RUB 2,784 million, of which approximately RUB 2,291 million bore interest at floating rates. The interest rate on our floating rate debt is determined principally by reference to London Inter Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and European Inter Bank Offered Rate (EURIBOR). In connection with the $100 million loan from Vnesheconombank and CSFB, we entered into interest rate swap agreement with CSFB on June 28, 2006. In accordance with this agreement, each June 28 and December 28, commencing on December 28, 2006 and ending on December 28, 2012, we undertake an obligation to CSFB in the amount of 8.55% of the outstanding Vnesheconombank loan balance and CSFB undertakes an obligation to us in the amount of LIBOR plus 3.25% of the outstanding Vnesheconombank loan balance. We did not designate the above interest rate swap derivative as a hedging instrument. Therefore, this financial instrument was classified as financial liability at the fair value of RUB 176 million. The net loss of RUB 103 million relating to the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap contract was included in non-operating income in our consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2008. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources" and Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the additional net future financing expense that would have resulted from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 500 basis points in the interest rate applicable to these loans is approximately RUB 256 million, as compared to approximately RUB 320 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The above sensitivity analysis is based on the assumption of an unfavorable 500 basis point movement of the interest rates applicable to each homogeneous category of financial assets and liabilities. A homogeneous category is defined according to the currency in which financial assets and liabilities are denominated and assumes the same interest rate movement within each category. Exchange Rate Sensitivity We have exchange rate exposure primarily with respect to indebtedness denominated in currencies other than the ruble. As of December 31, 2008, RUB 2,372 million of our interest bearing loans, as compared to RUB 2,474 million as of December 31, 2007, are denominated in foreign currencies, including RUB 2,342 million in U.S. dollars and RUB 30 million in euros. As of December 31, 2008, 154 RUB 1,608 million of our vendor financing payable, as compared to RUB 1,246 million as of December 31, 2007, are denominated in U.S. dollars. The additional future interest expense that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately RUB 27 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, such a change would also have resulted in an estimated foreign exchange loss of approximately RUB 398 million as compared to RUB 372 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This sensitivity analysis assumes an unfavorable 10% fluctuation in the exchange rates affecting the foreign currencies in which the indebtedness is denominated. Between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2008, the Russian ruble has decreased by approximately 16.5% as compared to the U.S. dollar and decreased by approximately 13.3% as compared to the euro. Item 12. Description of Securities Other Than Equity Securities Not applicable. Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies A. Defaults Due to insufficiency of cash flow generated by GlobalTel from its operating activities to cover both its operating expenses and refinancing its indebtedness in full, GlobalTel was in default of payments to Loral and GlobalStar L.P. as of December 31, 2008 in the amount of RUB 1,906 million. The loan from Loral does not provide for any collateral. A penalty in the amount of RUB 94 million is included in the outstanding balance, which comprises RUB 298 million as of December 31, 2008. As of the date of this annual report, GlobalTel has not obtained waivers from Loral on the loan. In July 2006, Loral brought an action against GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of the principal amount and penalties. In March 2007, the LCIA ruled in favor of Loral. In 2009, the Supreme Arbitration Court enforced the LCIA ruling and ordered GlobalTel to repay the loan and applicable penalties to Loral. GlobalTel is also in default in respect of payments of its vendor financing payable for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 totaling RUB 1,608 million payable to GlobalStar L.P. for the purchase of three gateways and associated equipment. The vendor financing agreement provides for a pledge of all equipment received from GlobalStar L.P. under the agreement until all payments are made. The following table sets forth the amounts payable under the vendor financing and the periods payable: Period Millions of rubles Payable in 2004 472 Payable in 2005 205 Payable in 2006 205 Payable in 2007 205 Payable in 2008 120 Total 1207 GlobalTel is in default with respect to payments due in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 and has not obtained a waiver from Globalstar L.P. As a result, we classified the total balance of RUB 1,207 million as current in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. Penalty interest in the amount of RUB 401 million has accrued for each day of delay at the rate of 10% per annum, and is included in the vendor financing payable. In 2006, Loral, which is the legal successor of Globalstar L.P., brought an action against GlobalTel demanding immediate repayment of the debt and seeking penalties. As of the date of this annual report, GlobalTel did not pay the ordered amount because it lacks the funds to do so. If we are forced to pay on GlobalTel's behalf, our management believes that such repayment by us of the defaulted vendor financing, loans and penalties ordered by a 155 court will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, we were not in compliance with certain covenants in relation to a loan we obtained from Vnesheconombank and CSFB and no waiver had been obtained from the banks. Therefore, the entire loan amount was included in the current portion of long-term loans in our consolidated balance sheet as of as of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. To date, we have not received notice from the banks confirming their waiver of the breach of the loan due to our non-compliance with the covenants. Except as set forth above, as of the date of this annual report, we are not in default on any payment of principal or interest, a sinking or purchase fund installment. B. Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies None. Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds None. Item 15. Controls and Procedures DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES As required by Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008. Disclosure controls and procedures refer to controls and other procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in our reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding our required disclosure. In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management was required to apply its judgment in evaluating and implementing possible controls and procedures. As described below, nine material weaknesses were identified in our internal control over financial reporting. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board's Auditing Standard No. 5 defines a material weakness as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weaknesses identified, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level. MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 156 Internal control over financial reporting refers to a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that: •pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; •provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and members of our board of directors; and •provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process, and it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 using the framework set forth in the report of the Treadway Commission's Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO), "Internal Control—Integrated Framework." The scope of management's evaluation excluded RTComm.RU acquired in July 2008, as permitted in SEC Staff Guidance, Frequently Asked Question No. 3 (September 24, 2007) regarding Release No. 34-47986, "Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports" (June 5, 2003). Accordingly, management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting does not include internal control over financial reporting of RTComm.RU, which is included in our 2008 consolidated financial statements and constituted approximately RUB 1.6 billion of our total assets and approximately RUB 2 billion of our total revenue. As a result of management's evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, management identified nine material weaknesses in our internal control. These material weaknesses are described below: 1)Ineffective process for documenting and applying key accounting policies and procedures We did not have an effective process for documenting and applying our key accounting policies and procedures. Specifically, we did not put controls in place to ensure proper accounting and/or reporting classifications of other non-current assets and inventory. Furthermore, we did not develop and implement procedures and relevant controls over subsequent events, contingent liabilities and certain revenue transactions, and did not have in place an effective process to ensure that existing accounting procedures are updated in a timely manner. Moreover, we did not consistently apply procedures with respect to disclosure of our related party transactions. This material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including revenue and operating expenses. 157 2)Lack of processes and controls to identify, capture, communicate and analyze relevant and financially significant information We did not have in place processes and controls to identify, capture, communicate and analyze relevant and financially significant information to and by the appropriate accounting personnel on a timely basis. This contributed to an ineffective system of internal controls over our IFRS financial statements close process and suppressed the oversight activity within the organization. In particular, relevant information was not properly provided by our sales departments, which resulted in material adjustments to revenue and operating expenses. Additionally, this material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several other significant accounts, including accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, bad debt expense and property, plant and equipment. 3)Lack of a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes We did not have in place a comprehensive accounting and reporting system for IFRS reporting purposes. In particular, we did not have a proper process in place necessary to appropriately apply our accounting policies for the purposes of external reporting under IFRS. Furthermore, the preparation of our IFRS financial statements was carried out by conversion of the statutory accounts using summarized data without sufficient controls over the completeness, accuracy, validity and restricted access over complex spreadsheets used for this purpose. As a result, financially significant information, such as the classification of transactions in the statement of cash flows was not analyzed, processed and reviewed properly and on a timely basis. This material weakness resulted in material audit adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including other accounts receivable, allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable, accounts payable, other current assets, taxes payable, bad debt expense, operating expenses and other non-operating income. 4)Lack of effective IT general controls We did not maintain effective IT general controls. Specifically, we did not put in place effective logical access and change management controls related to our billing, payroll and accounting systems. As a result, we did not have controls in place for the proper management of user accounts in our information systems, password and general security settings and the review of actions performed by users, including system administrators. Furthermore, our ineffective change management controls did not allow us to have reasonable assurance that all changes made to relevant information systems have been properly approved and tested. Moreover, we did not maintain effective controls over the testing of our back-up system to ensure data availability and integrity. This material weakness created a reasonable possibility that the application controls, which rely upon these IT general controls, are ineffective resulting in a reasonable possibility of a material misstatement of several of our significant accounts, including revenue and wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes. 5)Ineffective controls over our accounting for subsidiaries and associates We did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for our subsidiaries and associates and the related disclosures in accordance with IFRS. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation and timely provision of information for the IFRS financial statements by our consolidated subsidiaries and associates to the IFRS reporting department. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to several of our significant accounts, including operating expenses, accounts payable and other current assets. 6)Ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of accounting for settlements with contractors We did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of our accounting for settlements with contractors. Specifically, we did not design and put in place effective controls to ensure proper reconciliation of balances with contractors and to undertake sufficient follow-up 158 procedures on reconciling items to ensure certain financial data in our consolidated financial statements is accurate. Moreover, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure proper off-setting of prepayments against accounts payable in accordance with certain agreement terms and did not ensure appropriate accounting for cut-off issues. This material weakness resulted in adjustments to accounts payable and accrued liabilities and operating expenses. 7)Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues and expenses under agency agreements We did not maintain effective processes and controls over the accounting for certain of our revenues and expenses from the provision of long-distance telecommunications services under agency agreements. We used agents to process subscriber data, prepare source documents, maintain information systems, issue bills and collect payments from our subscribers. As a result, we relied on our agents' billing systems and processes without sufficient internal controls to record and report revenues and expenses from our subscribers associated with these agents. This material weakness did not result in material adjustments to our consolidated financial statements; however, there is a reasonable possibility that due to this control deficiency a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements related to accounts receivable and revenue will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 8)Ineffective controls over the accounting for revenues under direct agreements with end users We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for revenue from the provision of long-distance telecommunication services and related accounts receivable for direct agreements with end users. Specifically, we did not design and properly perform controls over the registration and processing of subscriber and commercial data and over the preparation and delivery of invoices. This material weakness did not result in material adjustments to our consolidated financial statements; however, there is a reasonable possibility that due to this control deficiency a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements related to revenue and respective accounts receivable line items will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 9)Lack of effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables We did not design and maintain effective controls over the accounting for certain revenues related to other revenue and their respective accounts receivables. Specifically, our controls were not designed and operating effectively to ensure the completeness and accuracy of revenues generated from the rent of channel, free-phone and internet protocol based services and equipment maintenance. This material weakness did not result in material adjustments to our consolidated financial statements; however, there is a reasonable possibility that due to this control deficiency a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements related to the revenue and respective accounts receivables line items will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2008 based on the "Internal Control—Integrated Framework" set forth in COSO. The independent registered public accountants, KPMG Limited, audited our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F. The effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting has been audited by KPMG Limited as stated in their attestation report appearing below, which expresses an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. 159 REMEDIATION ACTIVITIES AND CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Remediation Activities Management believes the measures that have been implemented to remediate the material weaknesses have had a material impact on our internal control over financial reporting since December 31, 2007, and anticipates that these measures and other ongoing enhancements will continue to have a material impact on our internal control over financial reporting in future periods. We expect our remediation efforts for each material weakness identified above to continue in fiscal years 2009 and 2010. To remediate these material weaknesses, we have adopted or will adopt the following changes: •With respect to the first and second material weaknesses described above, we are in the process of establishing additional review procedures to be performed by qualified accounting experts over our period-end financial reporting process and accounting for significant non-routine transactions and complex accounting issues. We are also in the process of improving the documentation of our significant accounting policies. •With respect to the third material weakness described above, we designed additional controls over the preparation of our consolidated financial statements using the financial reporting module within our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. We plan to implement and rely on these controls during the preparation of our 2009 IFRS consolidated financial statements. •With respect to the fourth material weakness described above, we are enhancing operating effectiveness of the procedures with respect to logical access and change management controls over our IT systems. In 2008, we designed our information security policies and procedures, improved operating effectiveness of physical access monitoring controls, consolidated our IT general control procedures and automated our change management process. In addition, we plan to put new controls in place and improve the operating effectiveness of existing controls in 2009 and 2010. •With respect to the fifth material weakness described above, we designed and implemented a financial statement closing process, which includes automated preparation of most of our significant consolidated subsidiaries' financial statements using our ERP system. We are currently enhancing the quality of our review of the financial statements of our consolidated subsidiaries and associates by qualified accounting personnel and our management. In addition, in 2009 we expect to design sufficient controls over the preparation and timely provision of information for purposes of preparing IFRS financial statements for our newly acquired significant subsidiary, RTComm.RU, which currently does not have an ERP system. •With respect to the sixth, eighth and ninth material weaknesses described above and based on an analysis of the control deficiencies identified by our management, we enhanced the operational effectiveness of existing controls and designed and implemented new controls for settlement with contractors, for revenues generated from and the accounts receivables related to our telecommunications services, including long-distance services to end users, rent of channels, free-phone and IP-based services and equipment maintenance. As a result, the residual risk of a material misstatement to the financial statements decreased but still exceeds the acceptable level of materiality. We are currently implementing additional procedures to enhance the operating effectiveness of existing controls and designing and implementing new controls. •With respect to the seventh material weakness described above, we optimized the structure and enhanced the effectiveness of our controls over the reconciliation of volumes of services rendered and cash collected. As a result, the residual risk of material misstatement to the financial statements decreased but still exceeds the acceptable level of materiality. We are currently implementing additional procedures to enhance the operating effectiveness of existing controls and designing and implementing new controls. 160 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management has evaluated, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, whether any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this annual report have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. In our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported the material weakness entitled Lack of strategic plans and policies and insufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess key strategic risks and their impact on financial statements by directors and management in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2007. To remediate this material weakness, in 2008 our Board of Directors approved a development plan for 2009 to 2013. Our risk assessment procedures and operating plans are consistent with the development plan. In addition, we put in place sufficient procedures and controls to identify and assess strategic risks, and specifically those directly related to our IFRS financial reporting objectives, including accurate and timely preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported the material weakness entitled Insufficient IFRS skilled accounting and finance personnel in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2007. To remediate this material weakness, in 2008 we have executed a recruitment plan for accounting and finance personnel. As a result of the plan, as of December 31, 2008, more than half of the accounting personnel directly participating in the preparation of IFRS financial statements have IFRS accounting certification, while the remaining are in the process of getting such certification. In addition, our IFRS accounting team has been through appropriate training and now possesses the appropriate knowledge and experience regarding the complexities of our operations, transactions and internal procedures and controls. In our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported the material weakness entitled Ineffective controls over impairment reviews of long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2007. To remediate this material weakness, in 2008 we formalized our procedures and controls related to the analysis of the potential impairment of long-lived and intangible assets, including goodwill, as well as other controls related to the impairment process. In addition, we implemented effective internal controls over review and approval related to the identification of cash-generating units for the purposes of an impairment analysis. In our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported the material weakness entitled Insufficient process and ineffective controls over the completeness and accuracy of deferred income tax balances and related disclosures in our internal control over financial reporting that existed as of December 31, 2007. To remediate this material weakness, in 2008 we put in place sufficient processes and effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of our deferred income tax balances, including their classification as temporary and permanent, and related disclosures in accordance with IFRS. In addition, we implemented effective controls related to the valuation of our deferred tax assets. We also enhanced the procedure for assessing tax risks and accruing respective provisions based on the results of audits by the tax authorities. Except as indicated above, there have not been any changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our last fiscal year that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 161 ATTESTATION REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Shareholders OJSC Rostelecom: We have audited OJSC Rostelecom and its subsidiaries' (hereinafter referred to as the "Group") internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Group's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Nine material weaknesses have been identified and included in management's assessment related to documentation and application of key accounting policies and procedures, identification and communication of relevant and significant information, accounting and reporting system for IFRS purposes, general controls over information technology, accounting for subsidiaries and associates, settlements with contractors, revenues and expenses under agency agreements, revenues under direct agreements with end users, and other revenues. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows of the Group as of December 31, 2008 and for the year then ended. These material weaknesses were considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2008 consolidated financial 162 statements, and this report does not affect our report dated June 10, 2009, which expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. In our opinion, because of the effect of the aforementioned material weaknesses on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the Group has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Group acquired RTComm.RU during 2008, and management excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, RTComm.RU's internal control over financial reporting associated with total assets of approximately 1.6 billion rubles and total revenues of approximately 2 billion rubles included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Group also excluded an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of RTComm.RU. We do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on management's statements referring to corrective actions taken after December 31, 2008, relative to the aforementioned material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. /s/ KPMG Limited Moscow, Russia June 10, 2009 Item 16A. Audit committee financial expert The Board of Directors has determined that Ivan I. Rodionov is an "audit committee financial expert" as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. Mr. Rodionov is an independent board member as defined under the NYSE Listing Standards. Item 16B. Code of Ethics On December 27, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted our Code of Ethics. A copy of the Code of Ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.rt.ru/en/centr-invest/corporate/corp_doc/. The Code of Ethics was prepared with the aim of satisfying the requirements and recommendations of the NYSE and the SEC. It sets forth standards for the business conduct and ethical behavior of members of our Board of Directors, Audit Commission, officers and employees, including: •full compliance with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules and regulations; •compliance with a required standard of business ethics and with methods of resolving conflicts of interest between personal and professional activities; •prompt and full disclosure of information to be submitted to Russian and foreign governments, regulatory agencies, stock exchanges, shareholders, investors and other stakeholders; •compliance with the requirements of our internal regulations with respect to the safekeeping and use of confidential information obtained as a result of the performance of official duties; •prohibitions against the abuse of official powers for personal gain, including the use of our property; and •notification to the Audit Committee of breaches of the Code of Ethics and, if required, of any consideration of a possible waiver from the Code of Ethics. 163 As of the date of this annual report, no waivers, including implicit waivers, from the provisions of the Code of Ethics had been granted. Item 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Audit fees For professional services rendered for the audits of our financial statements and our consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Ernst & Young billed a total of $3,085,000. This amount was net of VAT and included fees billed for audits of our financial statements and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries' financial statements prepared under both IFRS and Russian statutory accounting regulations and the reading of the information included in our annual reports. In 2008, KPMG became our auditor. The contract price for the 2008 audit of our and certain of our consolidated subsidiaries' financial statements prepared under IFRS, as well as our financial statements prepared under Russian statutory accounting regulations and the reading of the information included in our annual reports and review of interim financial statements amounted to RUB 78 million, net of VAT. Audit-related fees For professional audit-related services rendered, Ernst & Young billed us and our consolidated subsidiaries a total of $175,568, net of VAT, in 2007. Audit-related services included the review of interim financial statements. Expenses related to KPMG's review of interim financial statements in 2008 were included in the total audit fees and are not set out in the contract as a separate item. Tax fees None. All other fees In 2008, no other services were provided by Ernst & Young. In 2007, Ernst & Young billed us and our consolidated subsidiaries a total of $300,000, net of VAT, for other services related to pre-acquisition due diligence of RTComm.RU. Pre-approval policies and procedures All of the audit and audit-related services described above were pre-approved by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee considered whether the non-audit services rendered by Ernst & Young and KPMG were compatible with maintaining its independence as auditors of our financial statements and determined that they were. In accordance with its Regulations, the Audit Committee is directly responsible for the recommendation, compensation, retention and oversight of our independent auditors. The Audit Committee recommends the independent auditors to the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors nominates the independent auditors for approval by the general shareholders' meeting in accordance with the requirements of Russian legislation. Item 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees In accordance with Rule 10A-3(d) of the U.S. Exchange Act, we are required to disclose all exemptions from independent standards relating to the Audit Committee. 164 As of the date of this annual report, we relied on one exemption from the independence requirements of U.S. Exchange Act Rule 10A-3 (b)(1)(ii)(B) which allows foreign private issuers to have a non-management affiliated person with only observer status serve on the Audit Committee. Yelena V. Umnova serves as a member of the Audit Committee and meets the exemption requirements set forth in U.S. Exchange Act Rule 10A-3(b)(1)(iv)(D) as she: •is a representative of our affiliate, Svyazinvest; •has only observer status on, and is not a voting member or the chair of, the Audit Committee; and •does not serve as our executive officer. As of the date of this annual report, we did not rely on any exemptions other than as described above. Item 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers There were no purchases by or on our behalf or by or on behalf of any "affiliated purchaser" of shares or other units of any class of our equity securities during the period covered by this annual report. Item 16F. Change in Registrant's Certifying Accountant Not applicable. Item 16G. Corporate Governance We are a company organized under the laws of the Russian Federation and qualify as a foreign private issuer as such term is defined in Rule 3b-4 of the Exchange Act. In accordance with the NYSE corporate governance rules, listed companies that are foreign private issuers are permitted in some circumstances to follow home country practice in lieu of the provisions of the corporate governance rules contained in Section 303A of the NYSE Listed Company Manual that are applicable to U.S. companies. In addition, foreign private issuers listed on the NYSE must disclose any significant ways in which their corporate governance practices differ from those followed by U.S. companies listed on the NYSE. With regard to our corporate governance practices, these differences can be summarized as follows: •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require that a majority of directors be independent, as determined by the board. Russian law does not require that a majority of our directors be independent. However, the Corporate Behavior Code promulgated by the FSFM requires that 25% of our directors (and, in any case, not less than three) be independent. As of the date of this annual report, of our 11 directors, three have been determined by our Board of Directors to be independent in accordance with the independence standards set forth in Section 303A.02 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual. •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require that non-management directors meet at regularly scheduled executive sessions without management. Russian law does not contain such a requirement. However, our audit committee and nomination and remuneration committee are comprised of our three independent directors, who meet on a regular basis in connection with their work on these committees. •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require that listed companies have a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of independent directors and having a written charter specifying the committee's purpose and responsibilities, as well as annual performance evaluations of the committee. 165 We have a corporate governance committee which is comprised of three directors members and two members of Svyazinvest management and is primarily responsible for the convocation, preparation and holding of annual and extraordinary general meetings of shareholders, approval of and amendments to our internal document(s) setting forth rules of and approaches to disclosing information about us and submitting for review by the general meetings of shareholders proposals on approval of or making amendments to our charter and other internal documents governing operations of our governing bodies. This committee is also responsible for the oversight of compliance with ethical norms reflecting our social responsibility. We have a nominations and remuneration committee comprised of three independent directors. This committee functions pursuant to its charter specifying the committee's purpose, duties and responsibilities. The committee is primarily responsible for the formulation of our policy in respect of appointment of the General Director and members of the Management Board, determination of qualifications for candidates for the Board of Directors and formulation of our policy defining principles and criteria to determine compensation of members of the Board of Directors, the Audit Commission, the General Director and members of the Management Board, as well as criteria for the appraisal of their activity. This committee is also responsible for the preparation of recommendations on our personnel policy, including the employee incentive system and appraisal of activities of our management. •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require that shareholders be given the opportunity to vote on all equity compensation plans and material revisions. Under Russian law, such approval from shareholders is not required, and our equity compensation plans and material revisions thereto are currently approved by the Board of Directors. •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require the adoption and disclosure of corporate governance guidelines addressing certain subjects. Our corporate governance guidelines are consistent with what is required under U.S. and Russian law and are set forth in our Charter, Corporate Governance Code and in the regulations on our Board of Directors and in the bylaws of our various committees. •For U.S. companies, the NYSE standards require that listed companies adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers. We have adopted and post on our website a Code of Ethics which sets forth standards for the business conduct and ethical behavior of members of our Board of Directors, Audit Commission, officers and employees. In accordance with the corporate governance rules of the NYSE applicable to foreign private issuers, we also disclose these differences between our corporate governance practices and those required by the NYSE of listed U.S. companies on our internet website at http://www.rt.ru/en/centr-invest/corporate/corp_doc/. Item 17. Financial Statements See instead Item 18. Item 18. Financial Statements See pages F-1 to F-70 of our consolidated financial statements which are filed as part of this annual report. 166 Item 19. Exhibits Exhibit No Description 1.1 Charter (Articles of Association) of Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Communications Rostelecom (restated version No. 9), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 9, 2008(6)+ 1.2 Regulations on the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 3), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 1, 2009+ 1.3 Regulations on the Board of Directors of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 8), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 1, 2009+ 1.4 Regulations on the Management Board of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 4), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 16, 2007(5)+ 1.4.1 Amendment No. 1 to Regulations on the Management Board of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 4), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 1, 2009+ 1.5 Regulations on the General Director of the Open Joint Stock Company Long-Distance and International Telecommunications Rostelecom (restated version No. 1), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 30, 2001(1)+ 1.6 Regulations on the Audit Commission of OJSC Rostelecom (restated version No. 2), approved by the General Shareholders' Meeting on June 9, 2008(6)+ 2.1 Deposit Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2002, by and among, Rostelecom, JPMorgan Chase Bank (as depositary), and owners and beneficial owners of ADRs(7) 4.1 Termination Agreement, dated October 2, 2003, among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3)+ 4.2 Form of Agreement to Amend Financial Lease Agreement dated October 2, 2003, among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3) + 4.3 Form of Agreement to Amend Financial Lease Agreement, dated December 26, 2003 among Rostelecom and RTC-Leasing(3) 4.4 Form of Agreement to Novate Obligations under the Financial Lease Agreements, dated January 29, 2004, among RTC-Leasing and Rostelecom(3) 4.5 Form of Assignment, dated February 12, 2004 among RTC-Leasing and Westelcom(3) 4.6 Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5) + 4.6.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.6.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5) + 4.6.4 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Agency Agreement No. 33-06-03, dated June 9, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 167 Exhibit No Description 4.7 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003 between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(4)+ 4.7.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.2 Additional Agreement No. 2 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.3 Additional Agreement No. 3 , dated June 9, 2006, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated August 10, 2007, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.7.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, dated February 1, 2008, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz+ 4.7.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, dated October 1, 2008, to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-DVF, dated August 8, 2003, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz+ 4.8 Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(4) + 4.8.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.8.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated August 10, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 753-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Dalsvyaz(5)+ 4.9 Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 05-21/0155, dated October 24, 2003, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(4)+ 4.9.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 168 Exhibit No Description 4.9.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, July 24, 2006, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.9.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated June 4, 2007, to Agreement No. 1097-05, dated December 27, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10 Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5) + 4.10.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.10.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5) + 4.10.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5) + 4.10.5 Appendix No. 4 to Agency Agreement No. 36-06-23, dated July 24, 2006, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5) + 4.11 Service Provision Agreement No. 1096-05 (748-05-23), dated December 27, 2005, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom (4)+ 4.11.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 , dated July 4, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 1096-05 (748-05-23), dated December 27, 2005, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom(5)+ 4.11.2 Additional Agreement No. 2 , dated June 15, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 1096-05 (748-05-23), dated December 27, 2005, between Rostelecom and VolgaTelecom+ 4.12 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 03-01-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(4)+ 4.12.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated November 1, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 4.12.2 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated November 1, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 4.12.3 Agreement No. 2, dated October 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Agreement No. 03-01-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(6)+ 4.13 Service Provision Agreement No. 03-01-1035 (747-05-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(4)+ 4.13.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated August 16, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 03-01-1035 (747-05-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5)+ 169 Exhibit No Description 4.14 Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.14.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom (4)+ 4.14.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom (5)+ 4.14.5 Appendix No. 4 to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom (5)+ 4.14.6 Agreement, dated November 1, 2008, on Amendments to Agency Agreement No. 34-06-03, dated February 22, 2006, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom+ 4.15 Agreement, dated December 28, 2005, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.15.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 4.15.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 4.15.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated March 9, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(4)+ 4.15.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated June 14, 2007, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom No. 1-01, dated August 1, 2003(5)+ 4.16 Service Provision Agreement No. 751-05-23, dated December 28, 2005, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4) + 4.16.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 751-05-23, dated December 28, 2005, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom(4)+ 4.16.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated July 1, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 751-05-23, dated December 28, 2005, between Rostelecom and Sibirtelecom+ 4.17 Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4) + 4.17.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.3 Appendixes No. 2, 3, 4 to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.17.4 Agreement, dated June 26, 2007, on Amendments to Agency Agreement No. 213/24-206, dated March 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(5)+ 170 Exhibit No Description 4.18 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. UF/D-MRK-01/03, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.18.1 Additional Agreement No. 1a, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, dated March 11, 2006, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.18.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated March 26, 2007, to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(5)+ 4.18.9 Version 2 of Appendix No. 5 to contract on network connection between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform, dated January 1, 2006(4)+ 4.19 Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4) + 4.19.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.19.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated January 1, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 752-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Uralsvyazinform(4)+ 4.20 Agency Agreement No. 596-08-16, dated April 17, 2008, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(6)+ 4.20.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated December 10, 2008, to Agency Agreement No. 596-08-16, dated April 17, 2008, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company+ 4.21 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. 1, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(4)+ 4.21.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(5)+ 4.21.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated March 20, 2007, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(5)+ 171 Exhibit No Description 4.22 Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(4) + 4.22.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated June 9, 2006, to Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(6)+ 4.22.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated December 4, 2007, to Service Provision Agreement No. 750-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and Southern Telecommunications Company(6)+ 4.23 Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5) + 4.23.1 Appendix No. 1 (Form 1) to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.2 Appendix No. 1 (Form 2) to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.3 Appendix No. 2 to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.23.4 Appendix No. 3 to Agency Agreement No. 6595/06-DO(59-06-23), dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24 Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract No. CF-00-00-1100, dated August 1, 2003, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(4)+ 4.24.1 Additional Agreement No. 1, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.2 Additional Agreement No. 2, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.3 Additional Agreement No. 3, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.4 Additional Agreement No. 4, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.5 Additional Agreement No. 5, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.6 Additional Agreement No. 6, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.24.7 Additional Agreement No. 7, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 172 Exhibit No Description 4.24.8 Additional Agreement No. 8, dated August 25, 2006, to Agreement, dated January 1, 2006, on Amendments to Network Interconnection Contract between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(5)+ 4.25 Service Provision Agreement No. 749-05-23, dated January 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and CenterTelecom(4) + 4.25.1 Additional Agreement No. 1 to the Contract between OAO Rostelecom and OJSC CenterTelecom No. 6479/05-DÎ (749-05-23) dated January 01, 2006(5)+ 4.25.2 Additional Agreement No. 2 to the Contract between OAO Rostelecom and OJSC CenterTelecom No. 6479/05-DÎ (749-05-23) dated January 01, 2006(5)+ 4.26 Agency Agreement No.35-06-23, dated November 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom(5) + 4.26.1 Agreement No. 1, dated February 18, 2008, on Amendments to Agency Agreement No.35-06-23, dated November 1, 2006, between Rostelecom and North-West Telecom+ 8.1 List of subsidiaries of Rostelecom 11.1 The Code of Ethics of Rostelecom(6)+ 12.1 Certification of the CEO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 12.2 Certification of the CFO pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 13.1 Certification of the CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 13.2 Certification of the CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (1)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001. (2)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002. (3)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. (4)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. (5)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. (6)Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F of OJSC Rostelecom for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. (7)Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (a) to Form F-6 (Registration No 333-100776). +English translation. 173 SIGNATURES The registrant hereby certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 20-F and that it has duly caused and authorized the undersigned to sign this annual report on its behalf. OPEN JOINT STOCK COMPANY LONG-DISTANCE AND INTERNATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ROSTELECOM Date: June 17, 2009 By: /s/ ANTON YU. KOLPAKOV Name: Anton Yu. Kolpakov Title: General Director (CEO) By: /s/ ROMAN A. FROLOV Name: Roman A. Frolov Title: Chief Accountant (CFO) 174 OJSC ROSTELECOM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008 INDEX Pages Statement of Directors' Responsibilities F-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm as of December 31, 2008 F-3 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2006, 2007 F-4 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-5 Consolidated Statements of Income F-6 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-7 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity F-8 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F-9 F-1 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES To the Shareholders of OJSC Rostelecom 1.International convention requires that management prepare consolidated financial statements which present fairly, in all material respects, the state of affairs of the Group at the end of each financial period and of the results of operations and cash flows for each period. Management is responsible for ensuring that all Group entities keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of each entity and which enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and that their statutory accounting reports comply with Russian laws and regulations. They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 2.Management believes that, in preparing the consolidated financial statements set out on pages F-9 to F-70, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and that appropriate International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have been followed. 3.The consolidated financial statements, which are based on the statutory accounting reports adjusted to comply with International Financial Reporting Standards, are hereby approved on behalf of the Board of Directors. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors: /s/ A.YU. KOLPAKOV General Director June 10, 2009 OJSC Rostelecom 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya, 14, Moscow Russian Federation F-2 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders OJSC Rostelecom: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of OJSC Rostelecom and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the "Group"), as of December 31, 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Group's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Group's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated June 10, 2009 expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting. /s/ KPMG Limited Moscow, Russia June 10, 2009 F-3 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To Board of Directors and Shareholders of OAO Rostelecom We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of OAO Rostelecom, an open joint stock company, and subsidiaries, (hereinafter referred to as the "Group") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and the related consolidated statements of income, consolidated statements of cash flows and consolidated statements of changes in equity for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Group's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLC Moscow, Russia June 30, 2008 F-4 OJSC Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In millions of Russian Rubles) Notes December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 6 39,586 38,480 39,186 Goodwill and other intangible assets 7 3,875 2,745 2,795 Investments in associates 9 178 494 330 Long-term investments 10 294 11,847 5,728 Other non-current assets 49 20 71 Total non-current assets 43,982 53,586 48,110 Current assets Inventory 459 447 564 Accounts receivable 11 10,133 8,429 8,821 Prepaid income tax 1,375 778 154 Short-term investments 12 8,762 6,920 8,496 Cash and cash equivalents 13 11,992 3,284 2,353 Total current assets 32,721 19,858 20,388 Total assets 76,703 73,444 68,498 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Share capital 14 100 100 100 Retained earnings and other reserves 59,285 56,027 50,820 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 59,385 56,127 50,920 Minority interest 40 26 25 Total equity 59,425 56,153 50,945 Non-current liabilities Borrowings, net of current portion 18 117 172 298 Finance lease payable 16 461 396 427 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 15 243 269 326 Vendor financing payable 17 — — 362 Deferred tax liability 19 1,590 4,119 3,444 Total non-current liabilities 2,411 4,956 4,857 Current liabilities Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 15 9,495 7,445 7,372 Finance lease payable 16 103 108 78 Taxes payable 1,126 533 426 Vendor financing payable 17 1,608 1,637 1,640 Current portion of long-term borrowings 18 2,522 2,585 3,005 Short-term borrowings 13 27 175 Total current liabilities 14,867 12,335 12,696 Total liabilities 17,278 17,291 17,553 Total equity and liabilities 76,703 73,444 68,498 The notes on pages F-9 through F-70 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-5 OJSC Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (In millions of Russian Rubles unless otherwise stated) Year ended December 31, Notes 2008 2007 2006 Revenue Telephone traffic 48,143 50,000 49,121 Rent of channels 7,710 7,725 7,116 Other revenue 10,776 6,877 5,322 Total revenue 20 66,629 64,602 61,559 Operating expenses Wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes (9,473 ) (8,763 ) (7,147 ) Depreciation and amortization 6, 7 (7,174 ) (7,613 ) (8,418 ) Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets 6, 7 (215 ) (271 ) — Charges by network operators—international (8,706 ) (7,817 ) (7,304 ) Charges by network operators—national (25,743 ) (27,860 ) (29,355 ) Administration and other costs 22 (6,948 ) (6,670 ) (5,553 ) Taxes other than on income (618 ) (703 ) (621 ) Repairs and maintenance (899 ) (864 ) (866 ) Bad debt recovery/ (expense) 11 32 (815 ) (389 ) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (65 ) (197 ) (601 ) Total operating expenses (59,809 ) (61,573 ) (60,254 ) Operating profit 6,820 3,029 1,305 (Loss)/ income from associates (71 ) 156 19 Interest expense (268 ) (238 ) (133 ) Interest income 1,646 907 900 Gain on sale of investments 8,670 — 52 Other non-operating income/(loss) 64 (37 ) 81 Foreign exchange (loss)/ gain, net (788 ) 183 219 Profit before income tax 16,073 4,000 2,443 Current tax charge 19 (4,331 ) (1,854 ) (2,411 ) Deferred tax benefit 19 440 660 1,424 Income tax expense 19 (3,891 ) (1,194 ) (987 ) Profit after tax 12,182 2,806 1,456 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 12,178 2,805 1,458 Minority interest 4 1 (2 ) Rubles Rubles Rubles Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the parent—basic and diluted (in Russian Rubles) 24 12.54 2.89 1.50 The notes on pages F-9 through F-70 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-6 OJSC Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In millions of Russian Rubles) Year ended December 31, Notes 2008 2007 2006 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before income tax 16,073 4,000 2,443 Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to cash generated from operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 6, 7 7,174 7,613 8,418 Impairment losses 6, 7 215 271 — Bad debt (recovery)/ expense 11 (32 ) 815 389 Loss/ (income) from associates 71 (156 ) (19 ) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 65 197 601 Gain from sale of investments (8,670 ) — (52 ) Net interest (1,378 ) (669 ) (767 ) Other non-operating (income)/ loss (64 ) 37 (81 ) Foreign exchange loss/ (gain), net 788 (183 ) (219 ) Changes in net working capital: Decrease/ (increase) in accounts receivable 448 (487 ) (4,242 ) (Increase)/ decrease in inventories (8 ) 117 198 Increase/ (decrease) in payables and accruals 336 (116 ) 2,449 Cash generated from operations 15,018 11,439 9,118 Interest paid (212 ) (257 ) (426 ) Interest received 1,194 1,059 778 Income tax paid (4,740 ) (2,454 ) (2,049 ) Net cash provided by operating activities 11,260 9,787 7,421 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (7,640 ) (7,157 ) (7,177 ) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 316 231 414 Purchase of available-for-sale investments — (570 ) — Purchase of financial assets, other than available-for-sale investments (12,515 ) (20,279 ) (14,594 ) Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale investments, net of direct costs 11,385 38 67 Proceeds from sale of investment other than available-for-sale, net of direct costs 10,882 21,518 18,218 Dividends received from associates 20 4 97 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (1,454 ) — (1,481 ) Purchase of minority interest 8 — (25 ) — Net cash provided by/ (used in) investing activities 994 (6,240 ) (4,456 ) Cash flows from financing activities Drawdown of interest bearing loans 460 415 898 Repayment of interest bearing loans and loan facilities (1,218 ) (927 ) (1,297 ) Repayment of lease obligations (154 ) (105 ) (55 ) Repayment of vendor financing payable (410 ) (362 ) (711 ) Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent, net of tax (2,128 ) (1,630 ) (1,839 ) Net cash used in financing activities (3,450 ) (2,609 ) (3,004 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (96 ) (7 ) (6 ) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 8,708 931 (45 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 3,284 2,353 2,398 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 11,992 3,284 2,353 Non-monetary transactions: Non-cash additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 216 49 962 The notes on pages F-9 through F-70 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-7 OJSC Rostelecom CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (In millions of Russian Rubles) Attributable to equity holders of the parent Note Share capital Unrealized gain/(loss) on available-for-sale investments Asset revaluation surplus on acquisitions Retained earnings Total Minority interest Total equity Balances at December 31, 2005 100 888 — 48,709 49,697 — 49,697 Acquisition of minority interest — — — — — 27 27 Available-for-sale investments Valuation gain on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — 1,806 — — 1,806 — 1,806 Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — 1,806 — — 1,806 — 1,806 Profit for the period — — — 1,458 1,458 (2 ) 1,456 Total income and expense — 1,806 — 1,458 3,264 (2 ) 3,262 Dividends 14 — — — (2,041 ) (2,041 ) — (2,041 ) Balances at December 31, 2006 100 2,694 — 48,126 50,920 25 50,945 Acquisition of minority interest — — — (25 ) (25 ) — (25 ) Available-for-sale investments Valuation gain on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — 4,223 — — 4,223 — 4,223 Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — 4,223 — (25 ) 4,198 — 4,198 Profit for the period — — — 2,805 2,805 1 2,806 Total income and expense — 4,223 — 2,780 7,003 1 7,004 Dividends 14 — — — (1,796 ) (1,796 ) — (1,796 ) Balances at December 31, 2007 100 6,917 — 49,110 56,127 26 56,153 Acquisition of subsidiaries — — 258 — 258 10 268 Available-for-sale investments Valuation loss on available-for-sale investments, net of tax — (386 ) — — (386 ) — (386 ) Transferred to profit on sale (6,436 ) — — (6,436 ) — (6,436 ) Total income and expense for the period recognized directly in equity — (6,822 ) 258 — (6,564 ) 10 (6,554 ) Profit for the period — — — 12,178 12,178 4 12,182 Total income and expense — (6,822 ) 258 12,178 5,614 14 5,628 Dividends 14 — — — (2,356 ) (2,356 ) — (2,356 ) Balances at December 31, 2008 100 95 258 58,932 59,385 40 59,425 The notes on pages F-9 through F-70 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-8 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 1. REPORTING ENTITY These consolidated financial statements are presented by OJSC Rostelecom ("Rostelecom" or the "Company"), and its subsidiaries (together the "Group"), which are incorporated in the Russian Federation ("Russia"). The principal activity of the Group is the provision of long-distance domestic and international telecommunication services to the Government, businesses and individuals of Russia. The Group operates the main intercity network and the international telecommunications gateways of the Russian Federation, carrying traffic that originates in other national and international operators' networks to other national and international operators for termination. The Company's headquarters are located in Moscow at 1st Tverskaya-Yamskaya Street, 14, Russia. These consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, as detailed in Note 8. Rostelecom was established as an open joint stock company on September 23, 1993 in accordance with the Directive of the State Committee on the Management of State Property of Russia No. 1507-r, dated August 27, 1993. As of December 31, 2008, the Government of the Russian Federation controls OJSC Svyazinvest ("Svyazinvest"), the parent company of Rostelecom, by virtue of 75% less one share direct holding. Svyazinvest holds 50.67% of the voting shares in Rostelecom. 2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and comply with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB"). The Group maintains its accounting records and prepares its statutory accounting reports in accordance with Russian accounting legislation and instructions in Russian Rubles (Rbl). These consolidated financial statements are based on the underlying accounting records, appropriately adjusted and reclassified for fair presentation in accordance with the standards and interpretations prescribed by the IASB. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, except for restatement of property, plant, equipment and share capital for the effects of inflation up to December 31, 2002, and measurement of available-for-sale investments at fair value and some other items when IFRS requires accounting treatment other than historical cost accounting (refer to Note 4). The functional currency of the Company and each of its subsidiaries and the reporting currency for these consolidated financial statements is the Russian Ruble. All financial information presented in Russian Rubles has been rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise stated. 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP General The Russian Federation has been experiencing political and economic change that has affected, and may continue to affect, the activities of enterprises operating in this environment. Consequently, operations in the Russian Federation involve risks that typically do not exist in other markets. In addition, the recent contraction in the capital and credit markets has further increased the level of The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-9 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 3. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP (Continued) economic uncertainty in the environment. The consolidated statements reflect management's assessment of the impact of the Russian business environment on the operations and the financial position of the Group. The future business environment may differ from management's assessment. Inflation The Russian economy has been characterized by relatively high rates of inflation. The following table summarizes the annual rate of inflation for the past three years: For the year ended December 31, Annual inflation 2008 13.3 % 2007 11.9 % 2006 9.0 % Source: Federal Service of Public Statistics 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Set out below are the principal accounting policies used to prepare these consolidated financial statements: Changes in Accounting Policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except that the Group has adopted those new/revised standards and interpretations mandatory for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2008. The changes in accounting policies result from adoption of the following new or revised standards and interpretations: •IFRIC No. 11 "IFRS 2—Group and Treasury Shares Transactions"; •IFRIC No. 12 "Service Concession Arrangements"; •IFRIC No. 14 "The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction". The adoption of Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee did not have material impact on the Group's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Significant Accounting Judgments and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant estimates relate to the recoverability and depreciable lives of property, plant and equipment, fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in business The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-10 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) combinations, post employment benefits, allowance for doubtful accounts, and deferred taxation. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Changes in estimate of useful lives The Group assesses the remaining useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. In March 2006 the Company formalized a plan to gradually discontinue using analog trunk lines and equipment beginning from January 2006 and through the end of 2010. The Company has accordingly revised its estimate of the remaining period of use of the analog lines and equipment prospectively effective January 1, 2006. The net effect of change in useful lives of analog trunk lines for the year ended December 31, 2008 was to increase depreciation by 164 (2007: 243, 2006: 1,393). The change in useful lives is expected to result in a decrease of depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2009 by 63. Management believes this difference will be decreasing in subsequent years. Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities Acquired in Business Combinations The Group is required to recognize separately, at the acquisition date, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired or assumed in a business combination at their fair values, which involves estimates. Such estimates are based on valuation techniques, which require considerable judgment in forecasting future cash flows and developing other assumptions. Site Restoration Provisions The Group reviews site restoration provisions at each balance sheet date and adjusts them to reflect the current best estimate in accordance with IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. Post-Employment Benefits The Group uses actuarial valuation methods for measurement of the present value of defined post-employment benefit obligations and related current service cost (refer to Note 23). This involves the use of demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of current and former employees who are eligible for benefits (mortality, both during and after employment, rates of employee turnover, etc.) as well as financial assumptions (discount rate, future salary and benefit levels, etc.). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-11 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Allowances The Group makes allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. Significant judgment is used to estimate doubtful accounts. In estimating doubtful accounts historical and anticipated customer performance are considered. Changes in the economy, industry, or specific customer conditions may require adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, allowances for doubtful accounts have been created in the amount of 2,042, 2,187 and 1,594, respectively (refer to Note 11). Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating unit(s) to which goodwill is allocated. Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value of those cash flows. As at the balance sheet date the Group estimated the value in use of cash-generating unit CJSC Globus Telecom to be lower than the carrying amount of respective net assets including goodwill. The carrying amount of consolidated goodwill as of December 31, 2008 is 1,118 (refer to Note 7). Litigations The Group exercises considerable judgment in measuring and recognizing provisions and the exposure to contingent liabilities related to pending litigations or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. Judgment is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the final settlement. Because of the inherent uncertainties in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision. These estimates are subject to change as new information becomes available, primarily with the support of internal specialists, if available, or with the support of outside consultants, such as actuaries or legal counsel. Revisions to the estimates may significantly affect future operating results. Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries as of December 31 each year. A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by the Company, either through ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting share capital of the entity. Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases. The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-12 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) All intra-group balances, income and expenses and unrealized gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions are eliminated in full. Losses allocated to minority interest do not exceed the minority interest in the equity of the subsidiary unless there is a binding obligation of the minority to fund the losses. Losses in excess of minority interest are allocated to the Group. Associates in which the Group has significant influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Significant influence is usually demonstrated by the Group owning, directly or indirectly, between 20% and 50% of the voting ownership interest or by power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of associates. The Group's share of the net income or losses of associates is included in the consolidated statements of income, the Group's share of movement in reserves is recognized in equity and the Group's share of the net assets of associates is included in the consolidated balance sheets. An assessment of investments in associates for possible impairment or reversal of impairment recognized previously is performed when there is an indication that the asset has been impaired or the impairment losses recognized in prior years no longer exist. When the Group's share of losses exceeds the carrying amount of the investment, the investment is reported at nil value and recognition of losses is discontinued except to the extent of the Group's commitment to fund future losses. Unrealized profits and losses that arise from transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated in the proportion to the Group's share in such associates. Goodwill and excess of acquirer's interest in the net fair value of acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the net fair value of the Group's share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on an acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on an acquisition of an associate is included in the investments in associate. Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Impairment losses for goodwill may not be reversed. If the impairment loss recognized for the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying amount of the allocated goodwill, the additional amount of the impairment loss is recognized by allocating to other assets on pro rata basis, but not below their fair value unless another basis is more appropriate. Goodwill is not amortized. Instead, it is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date allocated to each of the cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combination's synergies, irrespective of whether other assets and liabilities of the Group are assigned to those units or group of units. Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is so allocated: •Represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes; and The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-13 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) •Is not larger than a segment based on either the Group's primary or the Group's secondary reporting format determined in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, to which the goodwill relates. Where recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operations within that unit are disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of cash-generating unit retained. In case of excess of the Group's interest in the net fair value of acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost of business combination the Group: (a)reassesses the identification and measurement of the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the measurement of the cost of the combination: (b)recognizes in profit or loss any excess remaining after that reassessment immediately. Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the entity concept method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the carrying value of net assets attributable to minority interests acquired is recognized directly in equity by charging or crediting retained earnings. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. The cost of the network comprises all qualifying expenditures up to and including the cabling and wiring to the local telephone operator's intercity exchange, and includes contractors' charges and payments on account, materials, direct labour, and interest costs on specific project financing up to the date of commissioning of the relevant assets. Dismantling costs are included in cost of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent expenditures are capitalized if it can be clearly demonstrated that they extend the life of the asset or significantly increase its revenue generating capacity beyond its originally assessed standard of performance. Expenditure for continuing repairs and maintenance are charged to the statement of income as incurred. Items of property, plant and equipment that are retired or otherwise disposed of are eliminated from the balance sheet along with the corresponding accumulated depreciation. Any difference between the net disposal proceeds and carrying amount of the item is reported as a gain or loss on derecognition. The gain or loss resulting from such retirement or disposal is included in the determination of net income. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-14 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Depreciation is calculated on property, plant and equipment on a straight-line basis from the time the assets are available for use, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Number of years Buildings and site services 10 - 50 Cable and transmission devices: • Channels 10 - 40 • Cable 30 - 40 • Radio and fixed link transmission equipment 8 - 20 • Telephone exchanges 15 Other 5 - 10 The useful life of assets encompasses the entire time they are available for use, regardless of whether during that time they are in use or idle. The useful lives and residual value of assets and methods are reviewed at each balance sheet date or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for prospectively. Depreciation of an asset ceases at the earlier of the date the asset is classified as held for sale and the date the asset is derecognized. At each balance sheet date or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the Group's assets may be impaired. If any such indication exists, an assessment is made to establish whether the recoverable amount of the assets has declined below the carrying amount of those assets as disclosed in the financial statements. When such a decline has occurred, the carrying amount of the assets is reduced to the recoverable amount. The amount of any such reduction is recognized immediately as a loss in the statement of income. Any subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of the assets is reversed when the circumstances that led to the write-down or write-off cease to exist and there is persuasive evidence that the new circumstances and events will persist for the foreseeable future. Increase of the recoverable amount is limited to the lower of its recoverable amount and carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of the assets' fair value less cost to sell, or value in use. The value in use of the asset is estimated based on forecast of future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continued use of the asset and from the estimated net proceeds on disposal, discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Based on management's analysis there were indicators of impairment of property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2008 (refer to Note 6). The determination of impairment of property, plant and equipment involves the use of estimates that include, but are not limited to, the cause, timing and amount of the impairment. Impairment is based on a large number of factors, such as changes in current competitive conditions, expectations of growth in the telecommunication industry, increased cost of capital, changes in the future availability of financing, technological obsolescence, discontinuance of service, current replacement costs and other changes in circumstances that indicate an impairment exists. The recoverable amount and the fair values are typically determined using a discounted cash flow method, which incorporates reasonable The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-15 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) market participant assumptions. The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of fair values for assets (or group of assets) requires management to make significant judgments concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, expected cash flows, applicable discount rates, useful lives and residual values. Methods used to determine the value in use include discounted cash flow-based methods and methods that use quoted stock market prices as a basis. These estimates, including the methodologies used, can have a material impact on the fair value and ultimately the amount of any property, plant and equipment impairment. Construction in progress represents properties under construction and is stated at cost. This includes cost of construction, plant and equipment and other direct costs. Construction in progress is not depreciated until the constructed or installed asset is ready for its intended use. Advances given to suppliers of property, plant and equipment are included in construction in progress. Interest costs on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment are capitalized during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. All other borrowing costs are expensed. Leases Service contracts that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey rights to the Group to use an asset or a group of assets in return for a payment or a series of fixed payments are accounted for as leases. Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease is determined based on the facts and circumstances of each arrangement to determine whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right to use that asset. Contracts meeting these criteria are then evaluated to determine whether they are either an operating lease or finance lease. Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the commencement of lease term at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly against income. Capitalized leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term unless there is a reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, in which case the assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Indefeasible Rights of Use (IRU) represent the right to use a portion of the capacity of a terrestrial or submarine transmission cable granted for a fixed period. IRUs are recognized as an asset when the Group has the specific indefeasible right to use an identified portion of the underlying asset, generally optical fibers or dedicated wavelength bandwidth, and the duration of the right is for the major part of the underlying asset's economic life. Such assets are included in property, plant and equipment in the consolidated balance sheet. They are depreciated over the shorter of the expected period of use and the life of the contract. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-16 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Leases, including IRU leases, where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment when there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Amortization periods and methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if expectations differ from pervious estimates, the changes are accounted for as changes in accounting estimates. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortization period or method, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. The Group assesses whether there is any indication that a finite lived intangible asset may be impaired at each reporting date. The Group also performs annual impairment tests for finite lived assets not yet placed in use. The amortization expense on intangible assets with finite lives is included in depreciation and amortization expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but tested for impairment annually or more frequently when indicators of impairment exist, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. Inventory Inventory principally consists of fuel and spare parts for the network. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each item to its present location and condition and its net realizable value. Cost is calculated on a first-in first-out basis. Items used in the construction of new plant and equipment are capitalized as part of the related asset. Net realizable value is determined with respect to current market prices less expected costs to dispose. Inventory used in the maintenance of equipment is charged to operating costs as utilized and included in repair and maintenance and other costs in the consolidated statements of income. Accounts receivable Trade and other accounts receivable are stated in the balance sheet at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts. The allowance is created based on the historical pattern of collections of accounts receivable and specific analysis of recoverability of significant accounts. Bad debts are written off in the period in which they are identified. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-17 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Financial instruments Financial instruments carried on the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, investments (other than in consolidated subsidiaries and equity method investees), non-hedge derivatives, accounts receivable, accounts payable and borrowings. The particular recognition methods adopted for financial instruments are disclosed in the individual policy statements associated with each item. The Group classifies financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: loans and receivables, financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets, financial liabilities at amortized cost. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and not originated with the intent to be sold immediately. Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment. The calculation takes into account any premium or discount on acquisition and includes transaction costs and fees that are integral part of the effective interest rate. Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through amortization process. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are financial assets or liabilities, which are either classified as held for trading or derivatives or are designated by the Group as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purposes of selling in the near term. Gains and losses on investments held for trading are recognized in income. All financial liabilities are carried at amortized cost using effective interest method, except for derivative financial liabilities which are carried at their fair values. Transactions with financial instruments are recognized using settlement date accounting. Assets are recognized on the day they are transferred to the Group and derecognized on the day that they are transferred by the Group. All other investments not classified in any of the two preceding categories are classified as available-for-sale. After initial recognition, available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognized as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognized at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the determination of net income. At each balance sheet date or more frequently if events occur that suggest a change is necessary, an assessment is made as to whether there is any indication that the Group's investments may be impaired. The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organized markets is determined by reference to the quoted market bid price at the close of business on the balance sheet day. For investment where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques. Such techniques include using recent arm's length transactions; references to current market value of other instruments which is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models. Interest income from investments is accrued during the period in which it is earned. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-18 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) The Group invests temporarily available funds in bills of exchange issued by various Russian companies maturing within 12 months after the balance sheet date or with no fixed maturity, which the Group plans to sell during the next year. Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and have not been designated 'as at fair value through profit or loss'. In subsequent periods, borrowings are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as well as through the amortization process. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances with banks, and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, with insignificant risks of diminution in value. Deferred income taxes Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. Deferred income tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences: •except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and •in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: •except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and •in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilized. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-19 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilized. Any such previously recognized reduction is reversed to the extent that it becomes probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset will be realized or the liability settled. Tax rates are based on laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Revenue and operating costs recognition Revenue and operating costs for all services supplied and received are recognized at the time the services are rendered. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the enterprise and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured. Revenues and expenses are reported net of respective value added tax. Revenues from directly billed subscribers are recognized in the period where the services were provided based on the Group's billing system's data. Revenues from subscribers billed via agents are recognized in the period where the services were provided based on agent reports. The Group charges all its subscribers throughout Russia for outgoing telephone traffic based on pre-set per minute tariffs regulated by the Ministry of Telecommunications. The Group is charged by regional local operators for originating and terminating calls. The Group also incurs agent fees in connection with the service contracts concluded with regional local operators. The Group charges amounts to foreign network operators for incoming calls and other traffic that originate outside Russia. The Group is charged by foreign operators for completing international calls. These revenues and costs are shown gross in the consolidated financial statements. Amounts payable to and receivable from the same operators are shown net in the balance sheet where a legal right of offset exists and there is intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Revenues from the sale of transmission capacity on terrestrial and submarine cables, which relates to IRU under operating leases where the Group is a lessor, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to any provision is presented in Other non-operating income or loss or capitalized in an asset if it is required by IFRS. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-20 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Employee benefits The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme which requires one-off contributions, representing net present value of future monthly payments to employees, to be made by the Group to a separately administered pension fund upon employees' dismissal. A participating employee with fifteen or more years of service in the telecommunication industry is eligible for the pension provided dismissal is accepted within one month after the statutory retirement age. The pension fund is liable for payments to the retired employees. Under the scheme benefits payable are indexed periodically. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the statements of income immediately. The Group uses the Project Unit Credit Method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost. The Group also participates in a defined contribution plan. Contributions made by the Group on defined contribution plans are charged to expenses when incurred. Effective January 1, 2004, maximum contribution is established at 100.00 Rubles per month per employee. The Group accrues for the employees' compensated absences (vacations) as the additional amount that the Group expects to pay as a result of the unused vacation that has accumulated at the balance sheet date. Under provision of the Russian legislation, social contributions are made through a unified social tax ("UST") calculated by the Group by the application of a regressive rate (from 26% to 2%) to the annual gross remuneration of each employee. The Group allocates the UST to three social funds (state pension fund, social and medical insurance funds), where the rate of contributions to the pension funds varies from 20% to 2% depending on the annual gross salary of each employee. The Group's contributions relating to UST are expensed in the year to which they relate. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed, except for those that would have been avoided if the expenditure to acquire the qualifying asset had not been made. To the extent that funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization is determined by applying a capitalization rate to the expenditures on that asset. The capitalization rate is the weighted average rate of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the enterprise that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining the qualifying asset. Qualifying borrowing costs are capitalized with the relevant qualifying asset from the date the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred until the related asset is substantially ready for its intended use. Capitalized borrowing costs are subsequently charged to the statement of income in the period over which the asset is depreciated. Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Rubles at the exchange rate as of the transaction date. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Rubles at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-21 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) monetary items, or on reporting the Group's monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recorded in the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recorded as foreign currency exchange gains or losses in the period in which they arise. As at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the rates of exchange used for translating foreign currency balances were (in Russian Rubles for one unit of foreign currency): 2008 2007 2006 US Dollar (USD) 29.38 24.55 26.33 Japanese Yen (100) 32.58 21.84 22.16 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 45.73 38.75 39.58 EURO (EUR) 41.44 35.93 34.70 Source: the Central Bank of Russia At the date these financial statements were authorized for issue at June 10, 2009 USD equals to 31.26, Japanese Yen equals to 31.86, SDR equals to 47.79, EUR equals to 43.49 Russian Rubles, respectively. Dividends Dividends are recognized when the shareholder's right to receive the payment is established. Dividends in respect of the period covered by the financial statements that are proposed or declared after the balance sheet date but before approval of the financial statements are not recognized as a liability at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date. The amount of dividends declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements were authorized for issue is disclosed in Note 33. Minority interest Minority interest includes that part of the net results of operations and of net assets of subsidiaries attributable to interests which are not owned, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, by the Company. Minority interest at the balance sheet date represents the minority shareholders' portion of the fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary at the acquisition date, and the minority's portion of movements in net assets since the date of the combination. The excess, and any further losses applicable to the minority, are charged against the majority interest, except to the extent that the minority has a binding obligation to, and is able to, compensate for the losses. If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, the majority interest holder is allocated all such profits until the minority's interest holder share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered. If a subsidiary or an associate has outstanding cumulative preferred shares, which are held outside the Group, the Company computes its share of profits or losses after adjusting for the preferred dividends, whether or not the dividends have been declared. The difference between consideration paid and the carrying values of net assets attributable to minority interests acquired was recognized directly in equity. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-22 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Earnings per share IAS 33, as revised, requires the application of the "two-class method" to determine earnings applicable to ordinary shareholders, the amount of which is used as a numerator to calculate earnings per ordinary share. The application of the "two-class method" requires that the profit or loss after deducting preferred dividends is allocated to ordinary shares and other participating equity instruments to the extent that each instrument shares in earnings as if all of the profit or loss for the period had been distributed. The total profit or loss allocated to each class of equity instrument is determined by adding together the amount allocated for dividends and the amount allocated for a participation feature. Segment information Effective December 1, 2003, the Group determined the primary segment reporting format to be business segments and the Group operates in one business segment for the provision of telecommunication services. This reportable segment was identified based on the organizational structure of the Group and types of activities the Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in. IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations not yet effective The Group has not applied the following IFRSs and IFRIC Interpretations that have been issued but are not yet effective: •IAS No. 1 "Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised)"; •IAS No. 23 "Borrowing Costs (Revised)"; •IAS No. 27 "Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (Revised)"; •IAS No. 32 "Financial Instruments: Presentation (Revised)"; •IAS No. 39 "Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (Revised)"; •IFRS No.1 "First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (Revised); •IFRS No. 2 "Share-based Payment (Revised)"; •IFRS No. 3 "Business Combinations (Revised)"; •IFRS No. 8 "Operating Segments"; •IFRIC No. 13 "Customer Loyalty Programmes"; •IFRIC No. 15 "Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate"; •IFRIC No. 16 "Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation"; •IFRIC No. 17 "Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners"; •IFRIC No 18 "Transfers of Assets from Customers"; •Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2008. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-23 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) The revised IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. The changes require information in financial statements to be aggregated on the basis of shared characteristics and to introduce a statement of comprehensive income. The revised standard gives preparers of financial statements the option of presenting items of income and expense and components of other comprehensive income either in a single statement of comprehensive income with subtotals, or in two separate statements (a separate income statement followed by a statement of comprehensive income). The Group is still evaluating whether it will have one or two statements. One more amendment to IAS 1 requires disclosure of certain information relating to puttable financial instruments classified as equity. The Group does not expect this amendment to impact the financial statements of the Group. The principal change to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs is to eliminate the previously available option to recognize all borrowing costs as expense when incurred and will have no impact on the Group's financial statements because it has always been the Group's accounting policy to capitalize borrowing costs incurred on qualifying assets. The provisions of revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs are effective for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. Revised IAS 27 was issued in January 2008 and becomes effective on or after July 2009. It requires that a change in ownership interest of a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction. Therefore, such a change will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise to gain or loss. Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary as well as loss of control of a subsidiary. The changes introduced by IAS 27 must be applied prospectively and will affect future acquisitions and transactions with minority interests. Amendment to IAS 32 becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. It requires certain puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation to be classified as equity if certain criteria are met. The Group does not expect this amendment to impact the financial statements of the Group. Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement—Eligible Hedged Items clarifies how the principles that determine whether a hedged risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation should be applied in particular situations. The amendment, which becomes mandatory for the Group's 2010 consolidated financial statements, with retrospective application required, is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards will come into effect on July 1, 2009. There is no effect on the consolidated financial statements as a result of the adoption of the standard. Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment—Vesting conditions and cancellations clarify the definition of vesting conditions, introduce the concept of non-vesting conditions, require non-vesting conditions to be reflected in grant-date fair value and provide the accounting treatment for non-vesting conditions and cancellations. The amendments to IFRS 2 will become mandatory for the Group's 2009 consolidated financial statements, with retrospective application. There is no effect on the consolidated financial statements, as the Group has no share-based payment transactions. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-24 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) IFRS 3 Business Combinations introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations that will impact the amount of goodwill recognized, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results. The changes introduced by IFRS 3 will be effective for financial years beginning on or after July 1, 2009. They must be applied prospectively and will affect future acquisitions and transactions with minority interests. IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires disclosure of information about the Group's operating segments and replaces the requirements to determine primary (business) and secondary (geographical) reporting segments of the Group. The Standard is effective for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. The Group is in the process of determining the effect of adoption of the Standard on the Group's results of operations and financial position. IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes was issued in June 2007 and became effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2008. This Interpretation requires customer loyalty credits to be accounted for as a separate component of the sales transaction in which they are granted and therefore part of the fair value of the consideration received is allocated to the award credits and deferred over the period that the award credits are fulfilled. The Group is now considering whether their arrangements with customers include terms which potentially may be subject to the requirements of this Interpretation. The adoption of the Interpretation may lead to deferral of some revenues. The Group is in the process of determining the effect of adoption of the Interpretation on the Group's results of operations and financial position. IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate provides some limited additional guidance on the distinction between 'construction contracts' (falling within the scope of IAS 11) and other agreements for the construction of real estate (falling within the scope of IAS 18). Agreements involving the construction of real estate will need to be examined carefully to determine whether they should be accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 or IAS 18. IFRIC 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2009. The Group does not expect this Interpretation to impact the financial statements of the Group. IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after October 1, 2008. This Interpretation provides guidance on net investment hedging regarding risks and amounts qualified for hedge accounting. The Group doesn't expect this Interpretation will have material effect on the Group's financial statements. IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners was issued in November 2008 and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2009. The Interpretation provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its shareholders. IFRIC 17 follows the principle that an entity should recognize a liability at the point when the dividend is appropriately authorized, the liability should be measured at the fair value of the non-cash assets to be distributed and the difference between the carrying amount of the assets distributed and the carrying amount of the dividend payable, if any, should be recognized in profit and loss. The Group does not expect this Interpretation to impact the financial statements of the Group. IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers was issued to address divergent practice in the accounting by recipients for transfers of property, plant and equipment from 'customers'. The The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-25 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 4. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) Interpretation concludes that when the item of property, plant and equipment transferred meets the definition of an asset from the perspective of the recipient, the recipient should recognize the asset at its fair value on the date of the transfer, with the credit recognized as revenue in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue. The Interpretation is to be applied prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on or after July 1, 2009. The Group doesn't expect this Interpretation will have material effect on the Group's financial statements. On May 22, 2008, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued its latest Standard, titled Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards 2008. This is the first Standard published under the IASB's annual improvements process, which is intended to deal with non-urgent, minor amendments to Standards. The Standard includes 35 amendments, and is split into two parts: •Part I—amendments that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes and •Part II—amendments that are terminology or editorial changes only, which the Board expects to have no or minimal effect on accounting. The Group evaluated the effect of adoption of the Standard on the Group's results of operations and financial position and concluded than its adoption will not have material impact. 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS OJSC RTComm.RU In March 2008, the Group's Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 68.4% equity interest in OJSC RTComm.RU from CJSC Sinterra, a non-related party. Control was passed to the Group on July 1, 2008. The Group's share in RTComm.RU before the acquisition was 31.1%. RTComm.RU is one of the leading companies in the Russian telecommunication market, providing Internet access services to enterprises and individuals. The purchase of RTComm.RU was aimed to increase the diversification of activities of the Group. The cost of the additional investment amounted to 1,560, including costs directly attributable to the acquisition of 15 and was settled in cash. OJSC RTComm.RU has three subsidiaries: CJSC RTComm-Sibir, LLC Bashrtcomm, LLC RTComm-Yug. The Group accounted for the acquisition of RTComm.RU by applying the purchase method, in accordance with provisions of IFRS 3 Business combinations. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-26 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) The results of operations and financial position of RTComm.RU were consolidated by the Group starting from July 1, 2008. The following table summarizes the fair values of identifiable net assets of RTComm.RU acquired as at the acquisition date: Pre-acquisition carrying amounts on a comparable IFRS basis Fair value adjustments Recognized fair values on acquisition Property, plant and equipment 669 128 797 Intangible assets Trademark — 76 76 Contract-based intangible assets — 298 298 Customer list — 424 424 Computer software 46 (5 ) 41 Other — 3 3 Inventories 5 (1 ) 4 Trade and other receivables 849 (12 ) 837 Cash and cash equivalents 113 — 113 Other current assets 524 (8 ) 516 Deferred tax liabilities 98 (265 ) (167 ) Short-term debt (122 ) — (122 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (1,414 ) 188 (1,226 ) Other current liabilities (16 ) — (16 ) Fair value of net assets 752 826 1,578 Less: minority interest (0.49%) (10 ) Less: fair value of previously acquired 31.1% share (490 ) Group's share of the fair value of net assets acquired (68.4%) 1,078 Consideration paid 1,560 Goodwill 482 The Group's share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in previous transactions was revalued, with the adjustment of 258 recognized directly in equity. From the date of acquisition until December 31, 2008, OJSC RTComm.RU has contributed 15 to the increase of the net profit of the Group for 2008. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2008, the profit of the Group would have been 11,921 and revenue would have been 68,883. CJSC Globus-Telecom On April 3, 2006, the Group in a linked transaction acquired 95% of the shares of CJSC Globus-Telecom, of which 60% was acquired from CJSC Alsean-N for 666, 15% was acquired from OJSC RTC-Leasing for 155 and 20% was acquired through the purchase of 100% of the shares in LLC The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-27 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) Telecomcenter for 281. Costs directly attributable to the business combination amounted to 21 and consisted of payments for legal and consulting services. The main activity of CJSC Globus-Telecom is the provision of telecommunication services, including provision of local telecommunication services, data transmission services, rent of channels, to governmental, corporate and individual customers in Moscow and other regions throughout Russia. The purchase of CJSC Globus-Telecom was aimed to strengthen the competitive position of the Group in the retail market by increasing its share of the Moscow corporate market and expanding the range of services provided to end-customers. The results of operations and financial position of CJSC Globus-Telecom were consolidated by the Group beginning from April 3, 2006. The following table summarizes the fair values of identifiable net assets of CJSC Globus-Telecom acquired as at the acquisition date: April 3, 2006 Property, plant and equipment 171 Intangible assets Number capacity 326 Contract-based intangible assets 147 Computer software 27 Inventories 2 Trade and other accounts receivable 88 Cash 12 Other current assets 53 Deferred tax liability (98 ) Long-term accounts payable (49 ) Short-term debt (51 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (167 ) Other current liabilities (17 ) Fair value of net assets 444 Less: minority interest (5.1%) (23 ) Group's share of the fair value of net assets 421 Consideration paid 1,123 Goodwill 702 The disclosure of carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of CJSC Globus-Telecom in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the business combination, is impracticable as CJSC Globus-Telecom had not been an IFRS reporter. From the date of acquisition until December 31, 2006, CJSC Globus-Telecom has contributed 6 to the increase of the net profit of the Group for 2006. If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2006, the profit of the Group would have been 1,447 and revenue would have been 61,652. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-28 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 5. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (Continued) CJSC Zebra Telecom On June 13, 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of CJSC Zebra Telecom from Starford Investments Company Ltd., an unrelated party, for 374 in cash. The main activity of CJSC Zebra Telecom is the provision of local telecommunication services and Internet services mostly in Moscow to individual customers. The purchase of CJSC Zebra Telecom was aimed to increase diversification of activities of the Group and to develop the activities related to sale of prepaid telephone cards. The results of operations and financial position of CJSC Zebra Telecom were consolidated by the Group beginning from June 13, 2006. The following table summarizes the fair values of net assets acquired as at the acquisition date: June 13, 2006 Property, plant and equipment 42 Intangible assets Trademarks 197 Contract-based intangible assets 3 Number capacity 1 Computer software 4 Inventories 10 Trade and other accounts receivable 35 Cash 1 Other current assets 17 Deferred tax liability (29 ) Short-term debt (49 ) Accounts payable and accrued liabilities (95 ) Fair value of net assets 137 Consideration paid 374 Goodwill 237 The disclosure of carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of CJSC Zebra Telecom in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the business combination, is impracticable as CJSC Zebra Telecom had not been an IFRS reporter. From the date of obtaining control until December 31, 2006 CJSC Zebra Telecom has contributed 13 to the decrease of the net profit of the Group for 2006. If the control was obtained at the beginning of the year, the profit of the Group would have been 1,417 and revenue would have been 61,741. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-29 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The net book value of property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 was as follows: Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2008 24,108 96,908 24,889 9,486 155,391 Additions — — 341 7,490 7,831 Acquisition through business combination 43 589 72 93 797 Disposals (966 ) (11,160 ) (1,691 ) (353 ) (14,170 ) Transfer 579 3,653 2,237 (6,469 ) — Reclassification 15 (198 ) 183 — — At December 31, 2008 23,779 89,792 26,031 10,247 149,849 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2008 (19,002 ) (79,607 ) (18,189 ) (113 ) (116,911 ) Depreciation expense (984 ) (3,693 ) (2,091 ) — (6,768 ) Impairment losses (3 ) (57 ) (65 ) — (125 ) Disposals 888 11,013 1,627 13 13,541 Reclassification (8 ) 60 (52 ) — — At December 31, 2008 (19,109 ) (72,284 ) (18,770 ) (100 ) (110,263 ) Net book value at December 31, 2008 4,670 17,508 7,261 10,147 39,586 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-30 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2007 24,329 103,039 25,129 8,293 160,790 Additions — — — 7,144 7,144 Disposals (1,070 ) (9,782 ) (1,620 ) (71 ) (12,543 ) Transfer 489 3,708 1,683 (5,880 ) — Reclassification 360 (57 ) (303 ) — — At December 31, 2007 24,108 96,908 24,889 9,486 155,391 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2007 (18,767 ) (85,265 ) (17,436 ) (136 ) (121,604 ) Depreciation expense (1,197 ) (4,007 ) (2,150 ) — (7,354 ) Disposals 967 9,640 1,417 23 12,047 Reclassification (5 ) 25 (20 ) — — At December 31, 2007 (19,002 ) (79,607 ) (18,189 ) (113 ) (116,911 ) Net book value at December 31, 2007 5,106 17,301 6,700 9,373 38,480 Buildings and site services Cable and transmission devices Other Construction in progress Total Cost At January 1, 2006 26,143 112,816 24,307 6,789 170,055 Additions — — — 7,706 7,706 Acquisition through business combination — 157 31 25 213 Disposals (2,022 ) (13,313 ) (1,801 ) (48 ) (17,184 ) Transfer 208 3,379 2,592 (6,179 ) — At December 31, 2006 24,329 103,039 25,129 8,293 160,790 Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2006 (18,449 ) (93,659 ) (17,183 ) (136 ) (129,427 ) Depreciation expense (1,805 ) (4,674 ) (1,919 ) — (8,398 ) Disposals 1,487 13,068 1,666 — 16,221 At December 31, 2006 (18,767 ) (85,265 ) (17,436 ) (136 ) (121,604 ) Net book value at December 31, 2006 5,562 17,774 7,693 8,157 39,186 As of December 31, 2008, the balance of construction in progress includes advances given to suppliers of property, plant and equipment in the amount of 3,050 (2007: 4,278, 2006: 2,508). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-31 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) As of December 31, 2008, the cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment was 64,005 (2007: 69,222, 2006: 68,212). Interest capitalization Interest amounting to 159, 239 and 273 was capitalized in property, plant and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The capitalization rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization is 7.7%, 9.1% and 7.8%, respectively. Pledged property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment with a carrying value of 1,610, 2,097 and 3,240 was pledged in relation to loan agreements entered into by the Group as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Included in pledged property, plant and equipment as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is also the Satellite Gateway equipment with a carrying value of nil, 102 and 154, respectively, pledged in connection with vendor financing received from Globalstar L.P. (minority shareholder of CJSC GlobalTel). Currently, CJSC GlobalTel is in default on this vendor financing (refer to Note 17). Impairment of property, plant and equipment Management believes that the capital and credit crisis and the world economic decline is an indicator for probable deterioration of performance of the Group and therefore performed an assessment of the impact of such events on its business and result of operations. The recoverable amount of the assets that were assessed for impairment was based on value in use and was determined at the cash-generating unit level. The cash generating units of the Group consist of: •OJSC Rostelecom including its subsidiary CJSC Westelcom, CJSC Zebra Telecom and CJSC RTComm.RU; •CJSC Globus Telecom; •CJSC MC NTT; •CJSC Global Tel. In determining value in use for the cash-generating unit, the cash flows were based on cash flow projections from financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management for the period from 2009 to 2013 and discounted at rates ranging from 18.17% to 20.60% on a pre-tax basis. Cash flows beyond the 5-year period were extrapolated using growth rate ranging from 2% to 3%. As a result of impairment testing, the value in use of cash generating unit CJSC Global Tel appears to be lower than its carrying amount by 149, of which 125 was allocated to property, plant and equipment and 24 to intangible assets. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-32 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS The net book value of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was as follows: Goodwill Number capacity Trademarks Computer software Customer list Contract- based intangible assets Other Total Cost At January 1, 2008 948 354 197 1,435 — — 370 3,304 Additions — 17 — 357 — — 76 450 Acquisition through business combination 482 — 76 41 424 298 3 1,324 Disposals — — — (147 ) — — (1 ) (148 ) Reclassification — — — — 147 — (147 ) — At December 31, 2008 1,430 371 273 1,686 571 298 301 4,930 Accumulated Amortization and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2008 (246 ) — (34 ) (264 ) — — (15 ) (559 ) Amortization expense — — (5 ) (343 ) (38 ) (16 ) (4 ) (406 ) Impairment losses (66 ) — — (24 ) — — — (90 ) Reclassification — — — — (13 ) — 13 — At December 31, 2008 (312 ) — (39 ) (631 ) (51 ) (16 ) (6 ) (1,055 ) Net book value at December 31, 2008 1,118 371 234 1,055 520 282 295 3,875 Goodwill Number capacity Trademarks Computer software Other Total Cost At January 1, 2007 948 353 197 1,176 150 2,824 Additions — 1 — 259 220 480 At December 31, 2007 948 354 197 1,435 370 3,304 Accumulated Amortization and Impairment Losses At January 1, 2007 (9 ) — — (13 ) (7 ) (29 ) Amortization expense — — — (251 ) (8 ) (259 ) Impairment losses (237 ) — (34 ) — — (271 ) At December 31, 2007 (246 ) — (34 ) (264 ) (15 ) (559 ) Net book value at December 31, 2007 702 354 163 1,171 355 2,745 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-33 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) Goodwill Number capacity Trademarks Computer software Other Total Cost At January 1, 2006 9 — — — — 9 Additions — 26 — 1,145 — 1,171 Acquisition through business combination 939 327 197 31 150 1,644 At December 31, 2006 948 353 197 1,176 150 2,824 Accumulated Amortization At January 1, 2006 (9 ) — — — — (9 ) Amortization expense — — — (13 ) (7 ) (20 ) At December 31, 2006 (9 ) — — (13 ) (7 ) (29 ) Net book value at December 31, 2006 939 353 197 1,163 143 2,795 The intangible assets recognized separately as a result of the acquisition of OJSC RTComm.RU, CJSC Globus-Telecom and CJSC Zebra Telecom (refer to Note 5) represent resources from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group, and include the following classes: •number capacity, •trademarks, •computer software, •customer list, •contract-based intangible assets. The owned number capacity with the carrying amount of 371 (2007: 354, 2006: 353) are intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and are not amortized. These assets have no legal restrictions on the term of their use and the Group can derive economic benefits from their use during indefinite term. These assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication that the intangible assets may be impaired. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 intangible assets include trademark of CJSC Zebra Telecom which was considered to have indefinite useful life. As of December 31, 2008, as a result of change of business model of CJSC Zebra Telecom the management of the Group reassessed the useful life of the trademark as finite and determined the remaining useful life of the trademark of 5 years. The carrying amount of the trademark as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 163, 163 and 197, respectively. The estimated useful life of the trademark of OJSC RTComm.RU is 7.5 years. The computer software includes internally generated and acquired intangible assets and has estimated useful lives from 1 to 10 years. Interest amounting to 4, 5 and 76 was capitalized primarily in computer software for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-34 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) The goodwill recognized is attributed to the acquisitions of OJSC RTComm.RU, CJSC Globus-Telecom and CJSC Zebra Telecom (refer to Note 5). CJSC Globus-Telecom's telecommunication service was identified as separate cash-generating unit with goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets acquired through business combination allocated to it. The recoverable amount of CJSC Globus-Telecom's telecommunication service was lower than its carrying amount by 66 at December 31, 2008. An impairment loss of 66 reduced the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to CJSC Globus Telecom. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 20.42% (2007:13.7%, 2006: 10.6%) and the annual growth rate for the period beyond 5 years is 3%. The gross margin was based on 63%. An increase of one percentage point in the discount rate used would have increased the impairment loss by 99. A 5% decrease in future planned gross margin would have increased the impairment loss by 339. CJSC Zebra Telecom was identified as a separate cash-generating unit at its acquisition date in June 2006 with goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets allocated thereto. In the last half of 2007, the Group determined that there were indications of impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets related to CJSC Zebra Telecom due to a decline in market conditions for their services. Therefore, the Group compared the recoverable amount of CJSC Zebra Telecom with its carrying amount and recognized an impairment loss of 271, of which 237 was allocated to goodwill and 34 was allocated to the respective trademark, which is an indefinite lived intangible asset. Consequently, goodwill was fully written off in 2007. The recoverable amount of ZAO Zebra Telecom has been determined based on its value in use calculated using the cash flow projection from financial budget approved by senior management for 2008 and extrapolated for the next four-year period. Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using nil growth rate. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 15.1% (2006: 14.7%). The gross margin was based on a range of 41% - 44%. In 2008, as a result of the decline in market conditions, the Group decided to change the business model where CJSC Zebra Telecom will provide termination services to the Group. This change in business model is expected to result in CJSC Zebra Telecom producing a significant amount of internally generated cash inflows from the provision of the termination services using CJSC Zebra Telecom's zone network. Thus, CJSC Zebra Telecom ceased to be a separate cash-generating unit since that time and is tested for impairment within the cash generating unit, OJSC Rostelecom. The carrying amount of goodwill and the number capacity as of December 31, 2008, allocated to each of the cash-generating units, is as follows: CJSC Globus- Telecom Rostelecom MTs NTT Total Goodwill 636 482 0 1,118 Number capacity 357 1 13 371 Net book value at December 31, 2008 993 483 13 1,489 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-35 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 7. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Continued) Rostelecom The recoverable amount of the Rostelecom unit to which indefinite lived intangible assets from CJSC Zebra Telecom and goodwill from CJSC RTComm.RU acquisitions are allocated were higher than its carrying amount, thus no impairment loss was recognized in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2008. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 18.17% and the annual growth rate in the periods beyond 5 years is 2%. MTs NTT The recoverable amount of cash generating unit CJSC MTs NTT was higher than its carrying amount, thus no impairment loss was recognized in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2008. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections is 20.60% and the annual growth rate in the period beyond 5 years is 3% The calculations of value in use for all cash generating units are most sensitive to the gross margin, discount rate and market share assumptions. Gross margin is based on historical actual results. The discount rate is the weighted average cost of capital of the Group adjusted for risks specific to the units. Market share assumptions are important because management assesses how the unit's position, relative to its competitors, might change over the budget period. 8. SUBSIDIARIES These consolidated financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of operations of Rostelecom and its subsidiaries, all registered in the Russian Federation, as follows: Effective share of the Group as of December 31, Subsidiary Main activity 2008 2007 2006 CJSC MTs NTT Fixed line telecommunication services 100 % 100 % 100 % CJSC Westelcom Leasing of telecommunication equipment 100 % 100 % 100 % CJSC Zebra Telecom (see Note 5) Local telecommunication services and Internet services 100 % 100 % 100 % OJSC RTComm.RU (see Note 5) Internet services 99.5 % 31 % 31 % CJSC RTComm-Sibir (see Note 5) Internet services 99.5 % 31 % 31 % LLC Bashrtcomm (see Note 5) Internet services 51 % 16 % 16 % LLC RTComm-Yug (see Note 5) Internet services 99.5 % 31 % 31 % CJSC Globus-Telecom (see Note 5) Local telecommunication services 94.9 % 94.9 % 94.9 % CJSC GlobalTel Satellite telecommunications 51 % 51 % 51 % CJSC SK Kostars Insurance services 86.7 % 86.7 % 86.7 % CJSC Incom Local telecommunication services 100 % 84.8 % 54.4 % DP Pansionat Malakhit Recreational services 100 % 100 % 100 % OJSC InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom Local telecommunication services 100 % 100 % 74 % The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-36 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 8. SUBSIDIARIES (Continued) In December 2008, the Group acquired an additional interest of 15.2% in CJSC Incom from Ericsson Enterprise AB, a non-related party, for the cash payment of 0.5. In March 2007, the Group acquired the outstanding minority interest of 26% in OJSC InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom, which is the subsidiary of CJSC Westelcom, for the cash payment of 25. As of December 31, 2006, CJSC Westelcom's interest in OJSC InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom was 74%. In 2006, the latter had negative net assets, and the minority interest in accumulated loss was allocated against the Group's interest. The results of operations and financial position of OJSC InfoTeKS Taganrog Telecom were consolidated by the Group in the accompanying financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 9. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES Investments in associates as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Associate Main activity Voting share capital, % 2008 Carrying amount 2007 Carrying amount 2006 Carrying amount OJSC RTComm.RU (refer to Note 5) Internet services — — 317 217 OJSC MMTS-9 Telecommunication services 49 130 114 76 OJSC Svyazintek Implementation of integrated billing systems 19 47 60 36 Other Various — 1 3 1 Total investments in associates 178 494 330 The Group's share in OJSC Svyazintek is 19%. However, the Group has the right to nominate two of eleven directors to the Board of OJSC Svyazintek while each of the other shareholders has only one director. This right gives an opportunity to the Group to have significant influence over the decision-making process of OJSC Svyazintek. The Group accounts for its interest in OJSC Svyazintek through equity method. Summarized financial information as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and for the years then ended of the associates disclosed above is presented below: Aggregate amounts 2008 2007 2006 Assets 1,068 3,624 3,778 Liabilities 615 2,037 2,679 Revenue 4,266 8,539 5,729 Net income (275 ) 444 255 All associates are registered in the Russian Federation. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-37 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 9. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES (Continued) In March 2007, the Group acquired 53.72% of the preferred shares of OJSC MMTS-9 for a cash payment of 17. This acquisition resulted in effective ownership of 50.29%, however, these shares do not have voting rights. Therefore, the acquisition did not result in obtaining control over OJSC MMTS-9. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, Rostelecom had significant influence over OJSC RTComm.RU through ownership of 31.1% of the voting shares of OJSC RTComm.RU. On July 01, 2008, the Group obtained control over OJSC RTComm.RU by acquiring an additional 68.4% equity interest. For more details refer to Note 5. 10. LONG-TERM INVESTMENTS Long-term investments are available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables, which are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 long-term investments comprised of the following: 2008 2007 2006 Investment in Golden Telecom — 10,945 4,963 Investment in OJSC Sberbank of Russia 173 826 724 Other long-term investments 121 76 41 Total long-term investments 294 11,847 5,728 The investment in OJSC Sberbank of Russia is stated at fair value determined based on the Russian Trade System (RTS) closing bid price at the last trading day of the year ended December 31, 2008. In February 2008, the Group accepted an offer by Lilian Acquisition, Inc., a subsidiary of Vimpelcom, to purchase the Group's shares of Golden Telecom, Inc. The consideration from the Group's sale of 4,417,055 shares of Golden Telecom, Inc. amounted to USD 464 million (11,385) paid in cash. Profit from this transaction before tax and related deferred tax effect amounted to 8,666 and 2,230, respectively, and are recognized as gain on sale of investments and tax charge in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2008. The net effect of 6,436, which was previously recorded in unrealized gain on available-for-sale investments as a result of fair value revaluations, was deducted from equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the investment in Golden Telecom was recorded at its fair value determined based on NASDAQ closing bid price on the last trading day. Included within other long-term investment is the deposit of 160 with Capital Credit Bank, which was impaired as the Bank is under insolvency procedure. Impairment loss of 86 is included in other non- operating expenses. The Group has collateral on deposit in term of property. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-38 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 11. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 comprised of the following: 2008 2007 2006 Local operators 1,963 1,067 1,679 Subscribers 4,510 5,056 4,519 Foreign operators 1,452 1,033 696 Other 2,490 1,751 1,284 Less: allowance for doubtful trade accounts receivable (1,716 ) (1,994 ) (1,132 ) Trade accounts receivable, net 8,699 6,913 7,046 Prepayments 389 503 418 Prepaid taxes other than on income 872 791 1,092 Other accounts receivable 420 349 721 Less: allowance for doubtful other accounts receivable (247 ) (127 ) (456 ) Other accounts receivable, net 1,434 1,516 1,775 Total accounts receivable 10,133 8,429 8,821 The net accounts receivable balance is not past due. The following table summarizes accounts receivables denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 USD 1,060 716 517 EUR 319 45 39 SDR (special drawing right) 73 269 140 Other currencies — 3 — Accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies, gross 1,452 1,033 696 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts receivable (422 ) (339 ) (293 ) Accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies, net 1,030 694 403 As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of trade accounts receivable approximated their fair value. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-39 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 11. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (Continued) The following table summarizes the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Balance, beginning of year 2,187 1,594 1,371 Provision/(recovery) for doubtful accounts receivable (32 ) 815 389 Accounts receivable written-off (113 ) (222 ) (166 ) Balance, end of year 2,042 2,187 1,594 As of December 31, 2008, the balance of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable decreased long-term accounts receivable and short-term accounts receivable by 79 and 1,963, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the balance of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable decreased long-term accounts receivable and short-term accounts receivable by 66 and 2,121, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the balance of the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable decreased long-term accounts receivable and short-term accounts receivable by 6 and 1,588, respectively. Long-term accounts receivable are included in other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheets. 12. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Short-term investments include Ruble denominated investments available-for-sale, which are stated at fair value, and loans and receivables which are stated at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Short-term investments comprised of the following as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Bills of exchange 3,449 343 542 Short-term deposits and deposit certificates 5,300 6,547 7,916 Other 13 30 38 Total short-term investments 8,762 6,920 8,496 As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 short-term investments, which are denominated in US dollars, include amounts totalling 1,552, 1,294 and 2,182, respectively. Bills of exchange and short-term deposits and deposit certificates are classified as loans and receivables. The bills of exchange bear interest in the range from 7% to 14% and are denominated in Rubles, as well as in foreign currencies. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 0% (2007: 0%, 2006: 26%) of the Group's total bills of exchange are denominated in foreign currencies, represented by US dollars. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-40 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 13. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 included cash on hand, at bank accounts and short-term deposits and bills of exchange with original maturities of less than three months as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Cash at bank—Rubles 9,111 3,106 1,147 Cash at bank—Foreign currencies 591 105 93 Short term deposits—Rubles 1,327 67 6 Short-term bills of exchange 957 — 1,101 Other 6 6 6 Total cash and cash equivalents 11,992 3,284 2,353 14. EQUITY Share capital The authorized share capital of the Company as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 comprised of 1,634,026,541 ordinary shares and 242,832,000 non-redeemable preferred shares. The par value of both ordinary and preferred shares amounted to Rbl 0.0025 per share. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the issued and outstanding share capital was as follows: Number of shares Nominal value Carrying amount Ordinary Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 728,696,320 1.822 75 Preferred Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 242,831,469 0.607 25 Total 971,527,789 2.429 100 There were no transactions with the Company's own shares during 2008, 2007 and 2006. The Board of Directors of Rostelecom is authorized under its Charter to issue additional ordinary shares up to the total of the authorized share capital without further approval of shareholders. The nominal share capital of the Company recorded on its incorporation has been indexed, to account for the effects of hyperinflation from that date through December 31, 2002. The share capital in the Russian statutory accounts at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 2,428,819 nominal (uninflated) Rubles. Ordinary shares carry voting rights with no guarantee of dividends. Preferred shares have priority over ordinary shares in the event of liquidation but carry no voting rights except on resolutions regarding liquidation or reorganization of the Company, changes to dividend levels of preferred shares, or the issuance of additional preferred stock. Such resolutions require two-thirds approval of preferred shareholders. The preferred shares have no rights of redemption or conversion. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-41 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 14. EQUITY (Continued) Preferred shares carry dividends amounting to the higher of 10% of the net income after taxation of the Company as reported in the Russian statutory accounts divided by the number of preferred shares and the dividends paid on one ordinary share. If the holders of preferred shares receive dividends of less than 10% of the net income after taxation as reported in the Russian statutory accounts, no dividends to the holders of ordinary shares are declared. Owners of preferred shares have the right to participate in and vote on all issues within the competence of shareholders' general meetings following the annual shareholders' general meeting at which a decision not to pay (or to pay partly) dividends on preferred shares has been taken. In case of liquidation, the property remaining after settlement with creditors, payment of preferred dividends and redemption of the par value of preferred shares is distributed among preferred and ordinary shareholders proportionately to number of owned shares. Accordingly, the Company's preferred shares are considered participating equity instruments for the purpose of earnings per share calculations (refer to Note 24). Distributable earnings of all entities included in the Group are limited to their respective retained earnings, as mandated by statutory accounting rules. Statutory retained earnings of the Company as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 49,708, 43,645 and 35,171, respectively. Reserve capital In accordance with the Company's Charter, Rostelecom has to maintain a reserve fund through a mandatory annual transfer of at least 5% of its statutory net profits up to the maximum amount of 15% of its statutory share capital. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 the statutory reserve fund amounted to 364,323 nominal (uninflated) Rubles. These amounts are prohibited for distribution by current Russian legislation except in some limited cases. Dividends Dividends declared to holders of preferred and ordinary shares for the years ending December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were accrued in the following years: 2008 2007 2006 Dividend—preferred shares 942 718 903 Dividend—ordinary shares 1,414 1,078 1,138 Total dividends 2,356 1,796 2,041 Rbl Rbl Rbl Dividend per preferred share 3.88 2.96 3.72 Dividend per ordinary share 1.94 1.48 1.56 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-42 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 15. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, PROVISIONS AND ACCRUED EXPENSES Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses consisted of the following as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Trade accounts payable 7,006 3,743 5,235 Advances received 1,033 858 865 Short-term portion of pension obligations (refer to Note 23) 56 55 63 Short-term portion of site restoration provisions 49 41 26 Compensation related accruals 937 1,324 741 Other accrued expenses 326 1,349 375 Dividends payable 88 75 67 Current accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 9,495 7,445 7,372 Long-term portion of pension obligations (refer to Note 23) 90 98 112 Long-term portion of site restoration provisions 48 57 78 Long-term advances received 72 59 69 Other long-term accounts payable 33 55 67 Non-current accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 243 269 326 Total accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 9,738 7,714 7,698 The following table summarizes trade accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 USD 1,440 463 932 SDR 255 181 314 EUR 149 221 124 Other currencies 2 20 53 Accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies 1,846 885 1,423 Site restoration provisions represent the present value of the expenditures the Company expects to incur in connection with phasing out of analog trunk lines during 2007-2010 in accordance with the formalized plan of the Company. The discount rate, which represents risk-free government bonds rate, was 10.11%. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-43 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 16. FINANCE LEASE PAYABLE Leased assets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, where the Group is a lessee of IRU, plant and machinery under finance lease agreements, are comprised of the following: 2008 2007 2006 Cost—capitalized finance leases 917 572 523 Impairment loss and accumulated depreciation (217 ) (160 ) (108 ) Net book value 700 412 415 In April 2005, the Group entered into an IRU finance lease agreement for use of a portion of the network capacity of terrestrial optical fiber cables. The lease agreement is non-cancellable for the period of 15 years, which approximates the remaining useful life of the optical fibers. Effective interest rate of the lease is 7.21% p.a. Lease payments are denominated in US Dollars. Also, the Group is involved in a finance lease agreement for use of a digital telecommunication station over its estimated remaining useful life of 7 years. Effective interest rate of the lease is 11.7% p.a. Lease payments are denominated in Russian Rubles. In 2007, the Group entered into a number of minor finance lease agreements for purchase of telecommunication equipment and vehicles for an average period of 3 years. Effective interest rate of these leases is 10.3% p.a. Future minimum lease payments together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Finance lease liabilities—minimum lease payments Current portion of finance lease liability 144 135 111 Between one to two years 81 106 83 Between two to three years 63 54 93 Between three to four years 61 43 43 Between four to five years 61 43 43 Over five years 377 307 349 Total minimum lease payments 787 688 722 Less interest (223 ) (184 ) (217 ) Present value of minimum lease payments 564 504 505 Present value of minimum lease payments Not later than 1 year 103 108 78 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 157 157 163 Later than 5 years 304 239 264 Total non-current lease payable 461 396 427 Total lease payable 564 504 505 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-44 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 16. FINANCE LEASE PAYABLE (Continued) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under the finance lease contracts for 2008 amounted to 74 (2007: 52; 2006: 54). Finance charges for the year ended December 31, 2008 amounted to 44 (2007: 82; 2006: 44) and are included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of income. 17. VENDOR FINANCING PAYABLE Vendor financing payable includes the following as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Globalstar L.P. 1,608 1,246 1,249 Peter Service — 391 391 Vendor financing payable—current portion 1,608 1,637 1,640 Peter Service — — 362 Vendor financing payable—non-current portion — — 362 Total vendor financing payable 1,608 1,637 2,002 As of December 31, 2008, the Group had the following outstanding vendor financing payable: 1,608 (USD 55 million) payable by CJSC GlobalTel to Globalstar L.P., which is the minority shareholder of CJSC GlobalTel, for the purchase of three gateways and associated equipment and services (refer to Note 6). Globalstar L.P. has a lien over this equipment until the liability is fully paid. CJSC GlobalTel is in default in respect of payments in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 and has not obtained a waiver from Globalstar L.P. As a result, the whole balance of 1,207 (2007: 1,008, 2006: 1,082) (USD 41 million) is classified as current in these consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Penalty interest in amount of 401, 238 and 167, accrued for each day of delay at the rate of 10% p.a., is included in vendor financing payable in these balance sheets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2006, Loral, which is the legal successor of Globalstar L.P., brought an action against CJSC GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of full amount of vendor financing payable. Management believes repayment of the defaulted vendor financing and loans would not have a material adverse effect on the Group's results of operations, financial position and operating plans. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-45 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS Long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Maturity 2008 2007 2006 Current portion of interest bearing loans 2,522 2,585 3,005 Between one to two years 117 136 198 Between two to three years — 36 63 Between three to four years — — 37 Between four to five years — — — Over five years — — — Non-current portion of interest bearing loans 117 172 298 Total interest bearing loans 2,639 2,757 3,303 As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, interest bearing loans, which are mostly denominated in foreign currencies, were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 USD 2,342 2,397 3,055 Japanese Yen (JPY) — — 32 EUR 30 77 123 Foreign currency denominated loans 2,372 2,474 3,210 Russian Ruble denominated loans 267 283 93 Total interest bearing loans 2,639 2,757 3,303 As of December 31, 2008, the Group has loan agreements with 8 banks and other financial institutions. The loans denominated in US Dollars are made at fixed rate of 6.29% and floating rates of LIBOR + 0.5 - 3.25%. The Russian Ruble denominated loans are made at fixed rates of 10 - 17% p.a. Effective interest rates of interest bearing loans approximate their nominal rates. Included in long-term loans is the amount of 1,959 on a credit agreement between Rostelecom and Vnesheconombank (VEB) entered into in December 2005. The loan is repayable annually up to the end of 2012. Under the existing credit agreement with Vnesheconombank and CSFB, the Group is required to meet at the end of each quarter various financial covenants applied to the statutory financial statements of the Company, including maintaining certain levels of debt to equity and debt to income ratios. As of December 31, 2008 the Group was not in compliance with some of the covenants, so the whole amount of the loan is included in current portion of interest bearing loans as of December 31, 2008. At the date these financial statements were authorized for issue no waiver had been obtained by the Group from the bank. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 the Group was not in compliance with some of the covenants, stipulated in the loan agreement and no waiver had been obtained from the banks. The Group received waivers from the bank only after the reporting dates (in June 2008 and June 2007, respectively), hence the whole amount of the loan is The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-46 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 18. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS (Continued) included in current portion of long-term loans in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. In connection with the $100 million loan from Vnesheconombank and CSFB, on June 28, 2006, the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement with CSFB. In accordance with the interest rate swap agreement, each year on June 28 and December 28, commencing on December 28, 2006 and ending on December 28, 2012, the Group undertakes an obligation to CSFB calculated at a fixed interest rate and CSFB undertakes an obligation to the Group in the amount calculated at floating rate payable by the Group on its loan. The Group did not designate the above interest rate swap derivative as hedging instrument. Therefore, this financial instrument was classified as financial liability at fair value through profit and loss amounted to 176 (2007: 73, 2006: 15). Fair value of the derivative is calculated by discounting future cash flows determined by condition and payments schedule of the agreement using forward rates of similar instruments at the reporting date. The net loss of 103 related to the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap contract was included in the non-operating loss in the consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2008 (2007: 58, 2006: 15). There is 298 outstanding on a credit agreement between CJSC GlobalTel and Loral Space and Communications Corporation ("Loral") as of December 31, 2008. CJSC GlobalTel is in default in respect of this loan. A penalty in the amount of 94 is included in the outstanding balance. As no waiver has been obtained from Loral, these loans are classified as current in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008. The loan does not provide for any collateral. In 2006, Loral brought an action against CJSC GlobalTel claiming immediate repayment of full amount of debt. In 2009, the Supreme Court of Arbitration committed CJSC GlobalTel to repay the loan and penalty to Loral. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-47 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 19. INCOME TAXES The components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the respective movements during 2008, 2007 and 2006, were as follows: Movement during 2008 recognized in Acquisition through business combination December 31, 2007 Equity Profit for the year December 31, 2008 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Accounts receivable 304 — — (197 ) 107 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 131 58 — (100 ) 89 Investments — — 65 65 Other 112 20 — (51 ) 81 Gross deferred tax asset 547 78 — (283 ) 342 Tax effects of future taxable items: Equity investments 2,392 — (2,256 ) (136 ) — Property, plant and equipment 2,159 45 — (550 ) 1,654 Other intangible assets 115 200 — (37 ) 278 Gross deferred tax liability 4,666 245 (2,256 ) (723 ) 1,932 Net deferred tax liability 4,119 167 (2,256 ) (440 ) 1,590 Movement during 2007 recognized in Acquisition through business combination December 31, 2006 Equity Profit for the period December 31, 2007 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Accounts receivable 100 — — 204 304 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 246 — — (115 ) 131 Other 101 — — 11 112 Gross deferred tax asset 447 — — 100 547 Tax effects of future taxable items: Equity investments 1,026 — 1,335 31 2,392 Property, plant and equipment 2,716 — — (557 ) 2,159 Other intangible assets 149 — — (34 ) 115 Gross deferred tax liability 3,891 — 1,335 (560 ) 4,666 Net deferred tax liability 3,444 — 1,335 (660 ) 4,119 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-48 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 19. INCOME TAXES (Continued) Movement during 2006 recognized in Acquisition through business combination December 31, 2005 Equity Profit for the period December 31, 2006 Tax effects of future tax deductible items Property, plant and equipment — 2 — (2 ) — Accounts receivable 171 5 — (76 ) 100 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses — 10 — 236 246 Other 27 17 — 57 101 Gross deferred tax asset 198 34 — 215 447 Tax effects of future taxable items: Investments valuation difference 449 — 570 7 1,026 Property, plant and equipment 3,718 — — (1,002 ) 2,716 Other intangible assets — 161 — (12 ) 149 Accounts payable, provisions and accrued expenses 202 — — (202 ) — Gross deferred tax liability 4,369 161 570 (1,209 ) 3,891 Net deferred tax liability 4,171 127 570 (1,424 ) 3,444 Differences between IFRS and statutory taxation and reporting regulations give rise to temporary differences between the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities relate to the income taxes levied by the same fiscal authority on the same taxable entity. Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets were recognized in the accompanying balance sheets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 2,174, 1,353 and 1,316, respectively, of which unused tax losses with expiry date from 2012 to 2018 amounted to 1,095, 574 and 545 for 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liabilities were recognized in the accompanying balances sheets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 1,236, 606 and 435, respectively. Deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which no deferred tax assets were recognized in the accompanying balance sheets as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 382, 321 and 13, respectively. On November 20, 2008, the Russian Federation government enacted legislation reducing the statutory income tax rate from 24% to 20%. Since this reduction in the statutory income tax rate was enacted prior to December 31, 2008, the effect of the change reduced the net deferred tax liability by 319 million, which has been recognized in these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-49 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 19. INCOME TAXES (Continued) The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Current tax charge 4,331 1,854 2,411 Deferred tax benefit (121 ) (660 ) (1,424 ) Effect of tax rate change (319 ) — — Income tax expense 3,891 1,194 987 The reconciliation of the theoretical amount that would arise using the Russian statutory rate of 24% to the total actual income tax was as follows for the years ending December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Income tax expense at statutory rate (24%) 3,858 960 586 Change in assessment for current tax of prior periods — — 2 Effect of tax rate change (319 ) — — Change in unrecognized temporary differences and unused tax losses 110 9 (7 ) Permanent differences 242 225 406 Income tax expense 3,891 1,194 987 Permanent differences comprise of various costs that are non-deductible for Russian income tax purposes, including depreciation of certain property, plant and equipment, certain employee costs, promotional and sponsorship expenditures, travel expenditures in excess of certain statutory allowances and other expenses and value added tax accrued on free-of-charge services. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-50 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 20. REVENUE Revenue comprised of the following for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Telephone traffic Domestic long-distance traffic 29,611 31,973 31,370 Outgoing international long-distance traffic 12,082 12,317 13,271 Incoming and transit international long-distance traffic 6,450 5,710 4,480 48,143 50,000 49,121 Rent of channels 7,710 7,725 7,116 Other revenue Television and radio transmission 345 448 528 Satellite services 263 699 559 Data transmission services 5,437 1,292 328 Intelligent network services (INS) 1,251 1,133 761 Interconnection services 128 519 597 Technical support services 444 464 364 Equipment maintenance services 890 696 537 Miscellaneous revenue 2,018 1,626 1,648 10,776 6,877 5,322 Total revenue 66,629 64,602 61,559 Revenue from data transmission services increased substantially as a result of the acquisition of OJSC RTComm.RU, whose main activity is internet services. After the acquisition date, revenue of OJSC RTComm.RU from data transmission services amounted 2,022. 21. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Group operates in one industry segment, being the provision of domestic and international long- distance telecommunication services in the Russian Federation. The results of this segment and assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are presented in the consolidated statements of income and the consolidated balance sheets, respectively. An analysis of revenue by service type is disclosed in Note 20. A geographical analysis of revenue by the country or region of the customer for the years ending December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows: Russia CIS USA Western Europe Eastern Europe Others Total 2008 59,218 2,407 1,031 2,491 462 1,020 66,629 2007 58,024 2,406 848 2,068 400 856 64,602 2006 56,360 2,227 475 1,515 241 741 61,559 Substantially all of the Group assets are located within the territory of the Russian Federation. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-51 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 22. ADMINISTRATION AND OTHER COSTS Administration and other costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Administration costs 1,157 998 1,061 Advertising and similar costs 1,367 1,403 748 Office maintenance 1,986 1,903 1,543 Utilities and similar services 725 700 655 Consulting and similar services 774 450 312 Universal service fund 563 585 587 Insurance 147 201 321 Other 229 430 326 Total administration and other costs 6,948 6,670 5,553 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The numbers of employees of the Group was equal to 22,372 as at December 31, 2008 (2007: 22,534, 2006: 23,233). The Group makes payments to the Government pension fund for its employees. Such contributions are included in the unified social tax ("UST") calculated by the Group using regressive scale and are charged to expense when incurred during the employee's service period. Total contributions for UST amounted to 1,435 during the year ended December 31, 2008 (2007: 1,426, 2006: 1,272). The Company participates in the private Joint Participation Program, which is a pension plan with defined contributions. To participate in the program, individuals should be full-time employees of the Company and should enter into non-state pension insurance agreement with NPF "Telecom-Soyuz", which is the successor of NPF Rostelecom-Garantiya. Total expenses of the Group under this program amounted to 6 during the year ended December 31, 2008 (2007: 9, 2006: 6) and are included in wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes in the consolidated statements of income. The Company also operates a defined benefit pension scheme covering a large number of its employees, which requires contributions to be made to NPF Telecom-Soyuz. Under the scheme, an annuity is acquired by the Company as of the termination date of an employee if the latter satisfies certain criteria, such as seniority of 15 years in telecommunication sector, including seniority of 5 years in the Company, and retirement on pension within one month after the date an employee is entitled to pension in accordance with Russian legislation. The liabilities under this scheme are unfunded. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-52 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 23. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Continued) The following table summarizes movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets for the above plan (refer to Note 15): 2008 2007 2006 Opening defined benefit obligation 239 277 290 Interest cost on benefit obligation 17 19 20 Current service cost 11 13 15 Actuarial losses on obligation 5 8 38 Benefits paid (56 ) (78 ) (86 ) Closing defined benefit obligation 216 239 277 Unrecognized past service cost (70 ) (86 ) (102 ) Liability recognized in balance sheet 146 153 175 Amounts recognized in wages, salaries, other benefits and payroll taxes in the consolidated statements of income in respect of the above defined benefit plan are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Interest cost on benefit obligation 17 19 20 Current service cost 11 13 15 Amortization of past service cost 16 16 16 Actuarial losses on obligation 5 8 38 Total net benefit expense 49 56 89 The principal assumptions used in determining pension benefit obligation for the Group's plan are shown below: 2008 2007 2006 Discount rate 10.4 % 7.9 % 7.9 % Employee turnover rate 10.9 % 10.9 % 10.5 % Expected inflation rate 10.4 % 6.9 % 7 % The amounts of experience adjustments are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Present value of defined benefit obligation 216 239 277 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities (3 ) 15 46 In accordance with the transitional provisions for the amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits in December 2004, the disclosures above are determined prospectively from the 2006 reporting period. The expected amount of benefits to be paid in 2009 is 75. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-53 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 24. EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per preferred and ordinary share is presented below (earnings per share data is stated in Rubles): 2008 2007 2006 Net income attributable to equity holders of the parent 12,178 2,805 1,458 Ordinary shares Preferred shares Ordinary shares Preferred shares Ordinary shares Preferred shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding 728,696,320 242,831,469 728,696,320 242,831,469 728,696,320 242,831,469 Basic and diluted earnings per share, Russian Rubles 12.54 12.54 2.89 2.89 1.50 1.50 The calculation of earnings per share is based on net profit for the period divided by the weighted average number of preferred and ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Dividends are fully allocated to continuing operations. There are no potentially dilutive instruments, therefore, diluted earnings per share equal basic earnings per share. 25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The table below summarizes carrying amount by class of all of the Group's financial instruments: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Classes Categories Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount Long-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 173 11,771 5,687 —at cost Available-for-sale 9 10 9 Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 112 66 32 Long-term receivables Loans and receivables 37 16 13 Total Non-current financial assets 331 11,863 5,741 Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale 13 30 21 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-54 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Classes Categories Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying amount Short-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 8,749 6,890 8,475 Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables 8,699 6,913 7,046 Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables 173 222 265 Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables 11,992 3,284 2,353 Total Short-term financial assets 29,626 17,339 18,160 Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 117 172 205 Long-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — 93 Non-current finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost 461 396 789 Non-current accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 33 55 67 Total Non-current financial liabilities 611 623 1,154 Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 2,046 2,286 2,891 Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost 489 326 289 Short-term finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost 1,711 1,745 1,718 Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost 8,181 6,418 6,403 Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 176 73 15 Total Short-term financial liabilities 12,603 10,848 11,316 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, current receivables, trade payables, other current financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments. The fair value of long-term debt investments, long-term accounts receivables and non-current accounts payable correspond to the present values of the payments related to the assets and liabilities, taking into account the current interest rate parameters that reflect market-based changes to terms and conditions and expectations. Available for sale investments accounted for at cost include unquoted equity investments whose value cannot be measured reliably. Quoted prices are not available for these investments due to the absence of an active market. It is also impossible to derive fair value using the similar transaction The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-55 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 25. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) method. Discounting cash flow method cannot be applied to such investments as there are no reliably determinable cash flows from holding them. 26. GAIN/(LOSS) FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Gain/(loss) from financial instruments for 2008, 2007, 2006 are as follows: 2008 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Long-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — (398 ) 8,666 — —at cost Available-for-sale 1 — 4 — Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables (86 ) — — — Investments in associates N/A Long-term receivables Loans and receivables (13 ) — — (9 ) Total Long-term financial assets (98 ) (398 ) 8,670 (9 ) Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — (16 ) — — Short-term debt investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — — — — —at amortized cost Loans and receivables — — — 245 Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables 278 — — 545 Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables (233 ) — — 45 Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables — — — (96 ) Total Short-term financial assets 45 (16 ) — 739 Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (10 ) Long-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost — — — — Total Long-term financial liabilities — — — (10 ) Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (431 ) Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (44 ) Short-term finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (181 ) Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (852 ) Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss — (103 ) — — Total Short-term financial liabilities — (103 ) — (1,508 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-56 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 26. GAIN/(LOSS) FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) 2007 2006 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Long-term equity investments — —at fair value Available-for-sale — 5,562 — (1 ) — 2,372 — — —at cost Available-for-sale — — — — (7 ) — 52 — Long-term debt investments —at amortized cost Loans and receivables 2 — — (4 ) — — — — Investments in associates N/A — — — — — — — — Long-term receivables Loans and receivables (60 ) — — — (6 ) — — — Total Long-term financial assets (58 ) 5,562 — (5 ) (13 ) 2,372 52 — Short-term equity investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — (1 ) — — — 4 — — Short-term debt investments —at fair value Available-for-sale — — — — — — — — —at amortized cost Loans and receivables — — — (145 ) — — — (212 ) Short-term trade receivables Loans and receivables (863 ) — — (103 ) (408 ) — — (186 ) Short-term other receivables Loans and receivables 107 — — (9 ) 4 — — (44 ) Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables — — — (9 ) — — — (8 ) Total Short-term financial assets (756 ) (1 ) — (266 ) (404 ) 4 — (450 ) Long-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (1 ) — — — 211 Long-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (3 ) — — — — Total Long-term financial liabilities — — — (4 ) — — — 211 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-57 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 26. GAIN/(LOSS) FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued) 2007 2006 Classes Categories Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Impairment loss and reversal of impairment loss Fair Value revaluation gain/(loss) Gain/(loss) from sale of financial instruments Gain/(loss) from currency translation Short-term bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — 214 — — — 111 Short-term non-bank loans Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (10 ) — — — 4 Short-term finance lease and vendor financing Liabilities at amortized cost — — — (3 ) — — — 12 Short-term accounts payable Liabilities at amortized cost — — — 236 — — — 332 Non-hedge derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss — (58 ) — — — (15 ) — — Total Short-term financial liabilities — (58 ) — 437 — (15 ) — 459 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (a) The Government and OJSC Svyazinvest as a shareholder As indicated in Note 1, the main shareholder of the Company is OJSC Svyazinvest, which holds 50.67% of the voting capital of the Company, and its representatives comprise a majority of the Board of Directors. The Government of the Russian Federation, in turn, holds 75% less one share of the voting capital of OJSC Svyazinvest and, therefore, ultimately controls the Company. It is a matter of Government policy to retain a controlling stake in sectors of the economy, such as telecommunications, that it views as strategic. (b) Interest of the Government in the telecommunications sector in the Russian Federation and the protection of that interest Effective telecommunications and data transmission are of great importance to Russia for various reasons, including economic, social, strategic and national security considerations. The Government has exercised and may be expected to exercise significant influence over the operations of the telecommunications sector and consequently, the Group. The Government, acting through the Federal The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-58 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) Tariff Service and the Federal Telecommunications Agency, has the general authority to regulate certain tariffs, and does regulate such tariffs. Except for regulation of tariffs, the telecommunication legislation requires the Group and other operators to make certain revenue-based payments to the Universal service fund, which is controlled by the Federal Telecommunications Agency. Moreover, the Ministry of Telecom and Mass Communications of the Russian Federation has control over the licensing of providers of telecommunications services. (c) Transactions with the Svyazinvest Group The Group uses the regional networks of the Svyazinvest Group to terminate telephone traffic. Tariffs for services between the Group and other Svyazinvest Group companies for traffic initiation and termination are materially affected by governmental regulation as disclosed in paragraph (b) of this note. In addition, the Group contracted the Svyazinvest Group companies as the Group's regional agents for customer service, billing and collection services related to long-distance services provided by the Group. Moreover, while calculating the costs of services rendered, the Group uses appropriate resources of Svyazinvest Group companies, including billing and other information systems data. The Group also receives services related to the construction of the network from certain companies of the Svyazinvest Group which are included in additions of property, plant and equipment in amount of 58 (2007: 21, 2006: 36). The Group makes certain contributions to non-for-profit organizations, which are companies of the Svyazinvest Group. The Group makes contributions to the non-state pension fund, which provides the Company's employees with a number of post-employment benefits (refer to Note 23). OJSC Svyazinvest executes significant influence over the operations of the fund. The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with the Svyazinvest Group were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Revenue 2,668 2,308 1,460 Charges by network operators—national (15,576 ) (21,162 ) (22,598 ) Administration and other costs (172 ) (105 ) (71 ) Contributions in pension fund included in wages, salaries, other benefit and payroll taxes (62 ) (86 ) (92 ) Bad debt recovery (27 ) (83 ) (46 ) In addition, OJSC Svyazinvest participates in the dividends declared by the Company, commensurate with its shareholding. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-59 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to the Svyazinvest Group were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Accounts receivable 690 670 781 Allowance for doubtful receivables (153 ) (129 ) (46 ) Accounts payable (848 ) (731 ) (1,677 ) (d) Transactions with the Government Other state bodies ("Budget Organizations"), such as the Ministry of Defence and entities funded by the Government, mainly use the Group's network to carry communications traffic and to broadcast across the country. The Group also consumes some services having both production and miscellaneous nature. The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with the Government were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Revenue 6,206 5,486 4,385 Charges by network operators—national (404 ) (385 ) (351 ) Administration and other costs (916 ) (722 ) (821 ) Contributions to Fund of Telecommunication History (included in administration and other costs) (18 ) (51 ) (16 ) Bad debt (expense)/ recovery 79 (51 ) — The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to such organizations were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Accounts receivable 636 526 530 Allowance for doubtful receivables (26 ) (106 ) (63 ) Accounts payable (372 ) (171 ) (219 ) The Group is also involved in providing telecommunication services to a significant number of commercial entities, which are directly or indirectly controlled by the Government or subsidiaries of The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-60 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) governmentally controlled entities. The following table summarizes the effect of transactions with the above entities on the consolidated financial statements of the Group: 2008 2007 2006 Share of total revenue 1.3 % 1.2 % 1.2 % Share of charges by network operators—national 3.6 % 4.6 % 5.1 % Share of accounts receivable 2.4 % 2.5 % 2.8 % Share of allowance for doubtful receivables 2.4 % 0.8 % 0.8 % Share in intangible assets 6.7 % 8.0 % — Share of other non-current assets — — 79.3 % Share of trade accounts payable 1.0 % 1.5 % 3.8 % The Company deposits available cash with OJSC Sberbank of Russia in which Government of the Russian Federation controls 57.6%. As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 cash held in OJSC Sberbank of Russia amounted to 360, 250 and 641, respectively. (e) Transactions with associates The Group is also involved in various telecommunication services with entities in which it has investments, including associates over which it exerts significant influence. A summary of these transactions is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Revenue 158 575 556 Charges by network operators—national (110 ) (118 ) (102 ) Bad debt (expense)/ recovery 33 (10 ) 22 The Group also receives services related to the construction of the network from OJSC Svyazintek which are included in additions of property, plant and equipment in amount of nil (2007: 9, 2006: 442). Amounts included in the consolidated balance sheets relating to the operations with these entities were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Accounts receivable 8 103 67 Allowance for doubtful receivables (5 ) (38 ) (28 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses (17 ) (23 ) (18 ) (f) Directors' remuneration In 2008, the total remuneration of the directors and management board members, represented by short-term benefits, amounted to 198 (2007: 191, 2006: 149). As of December 31, 2008, 13 employees of the Company were members of the management board (2007: 12, 2006: 11). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-61 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 27. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (Continued) (g) Other related party transactions The amounts of revenue and expenses relating to the transactions with other related parties were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Revenue 10 23 1,087 Administration and other costs (2 ) (8 ) (129 ) Bad debt (expense)/ recovery (8 ) 84 (7 ) The amounts of receivables and payables due from and to such companies were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Accounts receivable 42 4 239 Allowance for doubtful receivables (8 ) — (84 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses — — (90 ) As of December 31, 2008 the Group holds promissory notes of 925 issued by OJSC Kit-Finans Investitsionniy Bank, which has significant influence over the Group. Interest income accrued on those notes during 2008 amounted to 48. In 2006 the Group acquired promissory notes of OAO Svyazbank for 4,700, which were fully settled in the same year with net income from sale of promissory notes amounting to nil. As of December 31, 2006 cash held in OAO Svyazbank amounted to 319. Certain directors and managers of the Group and OAO Svyazinvest were directors of OAO Svyazbank till June 2006. 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (a) Legal proceedings The Group is subject to a number of proceedings arising in the course of the normal conduct of its business (refer to (b) below). Management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or the financial position of the Company or the Group. As mentioned in Note 18, Loral won a lawsuit against CJSC GlobalTel with a claim to repay the principal amount of the loan, interest and related expenses. In addition, Loral filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of Santa Clara, USA, to recognize its claim against GlobalTel and to obtain the right to claim the property of CJSC GlobalTel. As of the balance sheet date, the Court has not considered the case. (b) Taxation Russian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes occurring frequently. Further, the interpretation of tax legislation by tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activity of the Group's entities may not coincide with that of management. As a result, tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group entities may be assessed additional taxes, The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-62 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) penalties and interest, which can be significant. The Group entities' tax returns are open for review by the tax and customs authorities with respect to tax liabilities for three calendar years preceding the year in which the decision on the conduct of the tax audit was adopted. Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods. As of December 31, 2008, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Group's tax, currency and customs positions will be sustained upon examination. Management of the Group believes that it has adequately provided for tax liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2008. However, the general risk remains that relevant authorities could take different position with regard to interpretative issues and the effect could be significant. In December 2007, the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation completed the comprehensive tax inspection for the period of 2004-2006 and, as a result, issued a claim in the amount of 1,812 of additional taxes, fines and penalties. More than 90% of the amount relates to assessments calculated on the basis of the tax authorities' interpretation of telecommunication industry legislation in general and that of interaction between telecommunication operators in particular. The Group appealed the decision to a higher taxing authority and to the Arbitration Court of Moscow. In November 2008, the Arbitration Court of Moscow declared the claim of the tax authorities in the amount of 1,803 invalid and ordered the Group to pay 9. In February 2009, the Court of Appeals confirmed the decision of the Arbitration Court of Moscow. Subsequently, the Federal Tax Service of the Russian Federation filed an appeal to the Court of Cassation, which, in May 2009, upheld the ruling of the Arbitration Court of Moscow. Management believes that, overall, taxes for 2004-2006 have been properly calculated by the Group and fairly stated in its financial statements based on the Group's analysis of the sustainability of liability. However, certain transactions revealed during the tax inspection management assessed as unlikely to be successfully defended in higher courts. As a result, the Group has accrued additional tax liabilities of 140 as of December 31, 2008 (2007:144, 2006:0). In April 2008, the Russian Federal Tax Service completed a comprehensive tax inspection of CJSC GlobalTel for the period 2005-2006 and, as a result, issued a claim in the amount of 91 of additional taxes which was subsequently reduced to 45. CJSC GlobalTel disputed the claim in the Arbitration Court of Moscow. In April 2009, the court declared the claim of the tax authority of 43 to be invalid. Tax authorities may appeal the decision in the Court of Appeal. (c) Licenses Substantially all of the Company's revenues are derived from operations conducted pursuant to licenses granted by the Russian Government. These licenses expire in various years up to 2013. The Company has renewed all other licenses on a regular basis in the past, and believes that it will be able to renew licenses without additional cost in the normal course of business. Suspension or termination of the Company's main licenses or any failure to renew any or all of these main licenses could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and operations of the Group. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-63 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 28. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) (d) Capital Commitments As of December 31, 2008, contractual commitments of the Group for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to 3,134 (2007: 3,298, 2006: 2,915). As of December 31, 2008, all lease contracts are legally cancellable. However, the Group was involved in a number of operating lease agreements for land, on which the Group constructed certain leasehold improvements. Thus, it is reasonably certain that these leases would not be cancelled. Future minimum lease payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 2008, were as follows: Current portion 74 Between one to two years 65 Between two to three years 62 Between three to four years 52 Between four to five years 48 Over five years 1,623 Total minimum rental payables 1,924 In connection with the finance lease agreement referred to in Note 16, the Group, as lessor, also entered into operating IRU lease agreements for the rent of its network capacity of terrestrial fiber-optic cables for the period of 13 years starting at various dates between 2006 and 2008. Future minimum rentals receivable related to these cancellable operating leases, which are unlikely to be cancelled as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Current portion 39 83 70 Between one to two years 98 81 90 Between two to three years 92 80 88 Between three to four years 92 78 87 Between four to five years 92 78 86 Over five years 316 347 467 Total minimum rental receivables 729 747 888 29. CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Each class of financial assets represented in the Group's balance sheet to some extent is exposed to credit risk. Management develops and implements policies and procedures aiming to minimize the exposure and impact on the Group's financial position in case of risk realization. Financial instruments that could expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk are mainly trade and other receivables. The credit risk associated with these assets is limited due to the Group's large customer base and ongoing procedures to monitor the credit worthiness of customers and other debtors. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-64 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 29. CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) The Group's accounts receivable are represented by receivables from the Government and other public organizations, businesses and individuals each of them bearing different credit risk. Collection of receivables from the Government and other public organizations is mainly influenced by political and economic factors and not always under full control of the Group. However, management undertakes all possible efforts to minimize the exposure to risk of receivable from this category of subscribers. In particular, credit worthiness of such subscribers is assessed based on financing limits set by the Government. Management believes there were no significant unprovided losses relating to these or other receivables as at December 31, 2008. To reduce risk of exposure on receivables from businesses and individuals the Group implements a range of procedures. Credit risk is determined based on a summary of probabilities of occurrences and possible impact of events negatively influencing the customer's ability to discharge its obligation. A credit rating is attributed to a customer on initial stage of cooperation and, then, reassessed periodically based on credit history. As a part of its credit risk management policy, the Group arranges preventive procedures which are represented by but not limited to advance payments, request for collaterals, and banks and third party guarantees. For collection of receivables, which are past due, the Group takes a variety of actions from suspension of rendering of services to taking legal action. The Group deposits excess cash available with several Russian banks and makes investments into promissory notes, both of which expose the Group to credit risk since there is no deposit insurance for banks operating in Russia. To manage the credit risk related to deposit of cash available with banks, management of the Group implements procedures to periodically assess the credit worthiness of the banks. To facilitate this assessment, deposits are mainly placed with the bank where the Group has already had current settlement account and can easily monitor activity of the bank. Before making an investment into promissory notes, management of the Group performs an analysis of financial position of the issuer and monitors its credit worthiness over periods up to maturity. Credit quality of the promissory notes is enhanced, whenever possible, by collaterals. To secure the obligation of a debtor to pay on promissory notes and deposits, the Group holds collaterals amounting to 588 representing equipment in lease and property. The Group is entitled to take possession of the pledged equipment in lease and property only in case of either non-performance or undue performance of obligations by the debtor. The settlement date under promissory notes and deposits secured by collaterals will expire in 2009. Maximum exposures to credit risk are limited to the net carrying amounts of respective financial assets. Such exposure is mitigated by collaterals held by the Group. The Group had no individual customers, other than the Government of the Russian Federation and its related parties (refer to Note 27), that accounted for greater than 10% of its revenue during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. 30. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by preparing and monitoring compliance with a cash budget/forecast. This tool considers the maturity of both cash inflow and outflow from the Group's operations. Based on projected cash flow the decision is taken on either investment of free cash or The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-65 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 30. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) attracting financing required. Realization of liquidity risk management policy provides the Group with sufficient cash to discharge its obligation on a timely basis. Maturity analysis as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 represented below shows undiscounted cash flows. Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 2,776 128 — — — — Financial lease and vendor financing payable 1,752 81 63 61 61 377 Accounts payable 9,521 88 30 22 24 173 As of December 31, 2008 14,049 297 93 83 85 550 Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 2,841 147 37 — — — Financial lease and vendor financing payable 1,791 106 54 43 43 307 Accounts payable 7,471 111 29 28 24 144 As of December 31, 2007 12,103 364 120 71 67 451 Financial instrument Less than one year Between one to two years Between two to three years Between three to four years Between four to five years Over five years Bank loans 3,461 222 68 40 — — Financial lease and vendor financing payable 1,770 493 93 43 43 349 Accounts payable 7,416 83 85 29 32 171 As of December 31, 2006 12,647 798 246 112 75 520 In 2008, the Russian financial market was influenced by the World economic crisis. The Group deals mainly with short-term financial instruments denominated in Russian Rubles and management does not believe the crisis has or will significantly influence the Group's operations. In accordance with Russian legislation, joint stock companies must maintain a level of equity (net assets) that is greater than the charter capital. In the event that a company's net assets, as determined under Russian accounting legislation, fall below certain minimum levels, specifically below zero, the company can be forced to liquidate. CJSC Zebra Telecom and CJSC GlobalTel have had, and continue to have, negative equity as reported in their Russian statutory financial statements. Management believes that the risk of the initiation of statutory liquidation procedures or other material adverse actions is remote. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-66 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 31. MARKET RISK Our significant market risk exposures are interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and other price risk. Exposure to other price risk arises from available for sale investments quoted on active markets. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk mainly relates to floating rate debt denominated primarily in U.S. dollars and euros. To manage this risk, the Group entered into interest rate swaps to hedge significant amounts of its floating rate debt. Other borrowings do not materially influence the exposure to interest risk. The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group's profit before tax. Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on profit before tax 2008 EUR +5.0 % (1 ) EUR -5.0 % 1 USD +5.0 % (255 ) USD -5.0 % 255 2007 EUR +1.0 % (1 ) EUR -1.0 % 1 USD +1.0 % (63 ) USD -1.0 % 63 2006 EUR +1.0 % (2 ) EUR -1.0 % 2 USD +1.0 % (94 ) USD -1.0 % 94 Taking into account changes in the current situation on financial markets, management believes that 5% is the most probable range of fluctuation in interest rates. Foreign exchange risk The main business of the Group is maintained with Russian counterparties based on agreements in Russian Rubles. The Group's foreign currency receivables and payables arise mainly on contracts with foreign operators because of international industry practice to make settlements in US dollars, Euro or SDR. Hence, the Group will be exposed to foreign exchange risk as long as it continues to make settlements with foreign currencies. In 2008, approximately 11.1% (2007: 10.2%, 2006: 8%) of the Group's revenues and 17% (2007: 15%, 2006: 14%) of the Group's expenses were denominated in currencies other than the Russian Ruble. Revenues generated in foreign currency represent income received from foreign operators, and foreign currency denominated expenses consist primarily of payments to foreign operators for The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-67 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 31. MARKET RISK (Continued) international long-distance traffic termination. Accounts receivable from foreign operators and accounts payable to foreign operators which are denominated in foreign currencies amounted to approximately 9% (2007: 8.2%, 2006: 5%) of the Group's total accounts receivable and 19% (2007: 11.5%, 2006: 18%) of the Group's total accounts payable as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and outstanding as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounted to 89.5%, 88.9% and 94% of the Group's total borrowings as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Group does not have formal arrangements to mitigate foreign exchange risks of the Group's operations. The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group's profit before tax: Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on profit before tax 2008 EUR +20 % 35 EUR -20 % (35 ) USD +20 % (520 ) USD -20 % 520 SDR +20 % (36 ) SDR -20 % 36 2007 EUR +3.5 % (8 ) EUR -6.0 % 13 USD +4.0 % (104 ) USD -5.5 % 143 SDR +4.0 % 4 SDR -5.5 % (5 ) 2006 EUR +3.5 % (6 ) EUR -6.0 % 11 USD +4.0 % (138 ) USD -5.5 % 189 SDR +4.0 % (7 ) SDR -5.5 % 10 Taking into account that the Ruble depreciated against the USD by 20% and depreciated against Euro by 15% in 2008, and assessing the current situation on financial markets, management believes that 20% is the most probable range of the Ruble exchange rate fluctuation against the foreign currencies. The analysis was applied to monetary items denominated in relevant currencies at the balance sheet date. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-68 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 31. MARKET RISK (Continued) Other price risk As of December 31, 2008, the Group's assets include investments in quoted securities subject to other price risk. To mitigate this risk, the Group regularly analyzes market securities trends and makes a decision to sell a security, when necessary. 32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in market indexes for securities, with all other variables held constant, of the Group in terms of the result of fair value revaluation recognized in equity. Increase/decrease in percentage point Effect on revaluation result recognized in equity 2008 MICEX +50.0 % 87 MICEX -50.0 % (87 ) 2007 MICEX +30.0 % 3,532 MICEX -30.0 % (3,532 ) 2006 MICEX +30.0 % 1,706 MICEX -30.0 % (1,706 ) Taking into account changes in current situation in financial markets management believes that 50% is the most probable range of fluctuation in market indexes for securities. The primary objective of the Group's capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize the return to shareholders. The Board of directors reviews the Group's performance and establishes a variety of key performance indicators which are based on Russian statutory accounts. In addition, the Group is subject to externally imposed capital requirements (VEB loan covenants), which are used for capital monitoring. There were no changes in the objectives, policies and processes during 2008. Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company. Revaluation surplus, which is included in capital, is not subject to capital management because of its nature. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it by issuance of new shares, dividend payments to shareholders and purchase of treasury shares. The Company monitors compliance of the amount of legal reserve with the statutory requirements. In addition, the Company monitors distributable profits on a regular basis and determines the amount and timing of dividend payments. 33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS In January 2009, OJSC Rostelecom in partnership with mobile operator OJSC Megafon won a tender for sponsorship of XXII Winter Olympic Games and XI Winter Paralympic Games 2014 in The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-69 OJSC Rostelecom Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Continued) 33. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (Continued) Sochi in the category of Telecommunication. According to the agreement, the sponsorship contribution amounted to USD 260 million and should be charged to each sponsor in the amount of USD 130 million. Half of this amount shall be paid by cash and other half shall be contributed in free services. In return, each partner will obtain exclusive rights to use Olympic logo in its advertising and other activity. In May 2009, the Group's shareholders authorized dividends for the year ended December 31, 2008 in the amount of 2,121.6. Dividends Dividends per share, Rbl Ordinary Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 1,414.4 1.9410 Preferred Shares, Rbl 0.0025 par value 707.2 2.9124 Total 2,121.6 The withholding tax on dividends amounts to 191. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. F-70 QuickLinks TABLE OF CONTENTS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisors Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Item 3. Key Information 