Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Before you buy our common stock or other securities, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted below are not necessarily the only risks of our business. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock or other securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Certain risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include the following: Risks Related to Our Business We have limited cash and cash equicalents and rely on cash flow from operations to operate our business. At February 28, 2009 we had cash and cash equilavents of approximately $12.5 million ($21.8 million at December 31, 2008). Our capital requirements have been and will continue to be significant. Historically, we have relied upon cash flow from operations to fund our working capital needs. In light of current market and economic conditions it is difficult, if not impossible, to predict the timing or likelihood of generating revenues. In the event that we do not generate adequate cash flow from operations to fund our working capital needs we will need to raise working capital through a debt or equity financing, if available, or curtail operations. Limitations on our access to capital could impair our ability to expand our businesses. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to financial services firms, including ours. R&R, our broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC, FINRA and various self-regulatory 11 organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to expand our business. Furthermore, there are laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce R&R’s ability to distribute funds to us. As a result, regulatory actions could impede our access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. In addition, because we hold equity interests in our subsidiaries, our rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries may not materialize, if at all, until the claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries are satisfied. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the life science sector, primarily from biotechnology companies. Adverse developments or a decline in investor interest in this sector could harm our business. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, 59.0%, 70.0% and 60.4%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from the life science sector. Although this percentage may decrease over time, we anticipate that the life science sector (primarily biotechnology companies) will continue to account for the largest portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. The life science sector is known for its volatility due to a number of factors including the following: many companies in this sector rely on a single product or class of products; the sector is highly regulated; a company’s success and viability depends on the results of clinical trials, which are unpredictable; technological developments; disposition of patent applications; international respect of patents; product recalls; general economic conditions and political developments; global competition; and availability of insurance coverage. Despite our expansion into other sectors, our revenue and net profits will continue to be subject to the volatility of the life science sector, which could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations. Our growth may depend on our ability to complete acquisitions and integrate operations of acquired businesses and personnel. We deployed a significant portion of the net proceeds of the October 2007 financing to acquire businesses and to hire additional bankers and research analysts. We cannot assure you that any of the transactions that we have already completed or that we may complete in the future will be successful and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In fact, these transactions may cause margin fluctuation or otherwise have a material adverse effect upon our operating results. Achieving the benefits of acquisitions and new hiring depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-transaction events, including, in the case of acquisitions, integrating the acquired business, personnel, systems and operations into our business platform, operations and reporting and information systems. In the case of new hires and joint ventures, the post-transaction challenges include integrating the new people into our corporate culture and managing them properly. Our ability to integrate new businesses and new hires may be adversely affected by many factors, including the size of the business acquired, the number of and the personality of the people involved and the allocation of our limited management resources among various 12 integration efforts. Integration and management issues may also require a disproportionate amount of our management’s time and attention and distract our management from running our historical businesses. In connection with future acquisitions, we may decide to consolidate the operations of any acquired business with our existing operations or make other changes with respect to the acquired business, which could result in special charges or other expenses. Our results of operations also may be adversely affected by expenses we incur in making acquisitions and hiring new personnel. For example, in the case of acquisitions, our results of operations will be impacted by expenses, including legal and accounting fees, incurred in connection with the transaction, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets with definite lives and by additional depreciation expense attributable to acquired assets. Any of the businesses we acquire may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues, including some that we fail to discover before the acquisition, and our indemnity for such liabilities may be limited. Our ability to make any future acquisitions may depend upon obtaining additional financing. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. To the extent that we seek to acquire other businesses in exchange for our common stock, fluctuations in our stock price could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete acquisitions. A principal transaction platform, in which we will invest our own capital, will expose us to a significant risk of capital loss. Principal investing involves numerous risks, including illiquidity, loss of invested capital and revaluation. In the past, we have used a portion of our own capital in a variety of principal investment activities, including purchasing “shell” companies to be used in connection with future financing transactions. From time to time we also purchase securities offered in financing transactions for which we are acting as placement agent. We also hold a portfolio of equity securities, including stock and warrants that we received as part of our compensation in connection with investment banking assignments. Recently, we committed ourselves to investing up to $30 million over five years in Aceras BioMedical, which will use those funds to purchase promising compounds or equity securities in early stage companies in the life science and/or biotechnology sectors and for working capital. Other principal investing activities may involve purchasing securities in other high-risk financings of early-stage, pre-public, mezzanine or turn-around companies. These securities are likely to be restricted as to resale and may in any event, be highly illiquid. For example, in the case of investments in marketable securities, principal investments could be significant relative to the overall capitalization of the company in which we invest. Resale of a significant amount of these securities might adversely affect their market and/or sales price. Moreover, the companies in which we invest may rely on new or developing technologies or novel business models or concentrate on markets which have not yet developed and which may never develop sufficiently to support successful operations. Even if we make an appropriate investment decision based on the intrinsic value of an enterprise, we cannot assure you that general market conditions will not cause the market value of our investments to decline. For example, an increase in interest rates, currency fluctuations, a general decline in the stock markets, or other market conditions adverse to companies of the type in which we may invest could result in a decline in the value of our investments or a total loss of our investment. This could materially and adversely impact our financial results and the price of our common stock. We may also commit our own capital to facilitate client sales and trading activities. The number and size of these transactions may adversely affect our results of operations. To the extent that we have long positions in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have short positions in any of those markets an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially large losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. These long and short positions and the movement of the market relative to these positions could further contribute to the fluctuations in our revenues and earnings, which, in turn, could contribute to volatility in the price of our common stock. Our client base and the number of products we offer are limited. Our rate of growth will be impaired unless we expand our client base and increase our investment banking revenues. We derive most of our revenues from investment banking engagements, including placement agent and underwriting fees and strategic advisory fees, which also have higher profit margins than our other categories of revenue. For the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, investment banking transactions accounted for 84.3%, 84.5% and 85.3%, respectively, 13 of our revenues excluding principal transactions. In addition, a significant portion of our investment banking revenue derives from publicly-traded companies in the life science sector. In 2008, we acted as sole or lead manager in connection with 44 financing transactions, of which 30 were on behalf of companies in the life science sector. Most of our investment banking clients are public companies and many of them have little or no revenue. From January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2008, our corporate finance transactions ranged from $1.0 million to $163.0 million. Our future growth still largely depends on our ability to generate significant placement agent and underwriting fees. To do so, we must: (i) continue to build up our expertise in the life sciences, metals/mining and energy sectors and consider expansion into new sectors; (ii) increase the volume of corporate finance transactions in which we act as sole or lead manager; and (iii) actively solicit engagements for larger transactions. Significant factors affecting this strategy include our relatively small size and competition from larger investment banks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively for new investment banking engagements. If we are unable to increase our investment banking revenue, our rate of growth will be adversely affected, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to expand our investment banking services into sectors of the economy other than biotechnology. For the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, investment banking revenues from companies in sectors other than biotechnology and life science were 41.0%, 30.0% and 39.6%, respectively, of our total revenues. Since we did not have any particular expertise in sectors other than biotechnology prior to the second quarter of 2008, we relied, in part, on our relationships with institutional investors and private equity funds to introduce us to companies that need capital and on our own ability to identify opportunities to which we can apply our corporate finance know-how. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to receive referrals from institutional investor sources or that our recent expansion into the metals/mining and energy sectors will result in additional investment banking revenues or that our recently hired investment banking teams will be successful in generating new investment banking assignments. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the investment banking sector can be highly volatile, which could adversely impact our revenues and profits. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant variations from period-to-period in our revenues and results of operations. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues, which represent the largest portion of our revenues, are typically earned when the financing or merger or acquisition transaction is consummated, the timing of which is uncertain and largely beyond our control. If a transaction fails to close, we will earn little or no revenue despite the fact that we may have devoted considerable resources to, and incurred significant out-of-pocket expenses in connection with, the transaction. As a result, our business depends a great deal on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client could delay or terminate financing transactions because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, adverse market conditions or because its business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. In addition, many companies seeking a financing simultaneously explore a merger or sale option. Our investment banking revenues would be adversely affected if companies for which we are acting as placement agent or underwriter were sold and we were not also engaged as a strategic advisor. Market conditions and valuations for companies in the life science, metals/mining and energy sectors, as well as general market conditions, can materially affect our financial performance. The nature of our revenue generation, including the size of transactions, the timing of transaction closings and the sectors in which those transactions occur, make our future performance difficult to predict and potentially highly variable. Revenues for many of the services we provide are earned only upon the successful completion of a transaction. Accordingly, revenues and net income in any period may not be indicative of full-year results or the results of any other period and may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter depending on whether and when transactions are completed and the number, size and type of transactions completed. In particular, recent volatility in the capital markets may lead to disruptions that delay or eliminate revenue opportunities. 14 Our results may be adversely affected in future periods by the volatility of financial instruments in our portfolio. We may engage in large block trades in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security or warrant, securities or warrants of a single issuer, or securities or warrants of issuers engaged in a specific industry. Any downward price movement in these securities or warrants could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits in the future. Our corporate finance and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Our investment banking engagements, whether for a financing, a merger or an acquisition transaction, are usually transaction specific as opposed to long-term engagements. As such, we must continually seek new engagements even from companies that have engaged us in the past. For this reason, we believe it is important to nurture strong relationships with our clients. Although we have been successful in securing repeat engagements from clients in the past, our ability to do so on a regular basis is by no means assured. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from new or existing clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We depend on the services of a limited number of key executives and the loss of their services would have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Michael Vasinkevich, our Vice Chairman, Edward Rubin, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and John J. Borer III, Head of Investment Banking. Their reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in expanding our business, and we believe our historical and future performance is strongly correlated to their involvement to date and their continued involvement in our operations. The loss or reduction of the services of any of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Rubin and/or Borer, due to death, disability, termination of employment or regulatory restriction, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, including our ability to attract new company clients and to raise capital from institutional investors. We entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Rubin and Borer, which initially expire on February 28, 2010. Each employment agreement then renews automatically for an unlimited number of one-year periods until either party gives a 90-day non-renewal notice. If the executive’s employment terminates for any reason, he is subject to a covenant that prohibits him from competing with us for a period of one year from the date of termination. We cannot assure you that one or more of Messrs. Vasinkevich, Borer and Rubin will not resign, join a competitor or form a competing company or that the non-competition provisions in their employment agreements are enforceable. The investment banking industry is highly competitive. If we fail to address the challenges posed by this competition, we could lose our leading position in these areas, causing our operating results to suffer. The investment banking industry is intensely competitive, particularly in those areas in which we specialize (i.e., biotechnology and life science, metals/mining and energy, and PIPE and RD transactions), and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We have experienced intense price competition in our various businesses. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, could adversely affect our revenues, even as the size and number of our investment banking transactions may increase. Many of our competitors are larger, have greater financial and other resources and longer operating histories than we have, giving them a significant competitive advantage. We consider our principal competitors to include Canaccord Adams, Inc., Cowen Group, Inc, Jefferies Group, Inc., JMP Group, Inc, Ladenburg Thalmann Financial Services, Inc., Lazard Ltd., Leerink Swann & Co., Merriman Curhan Ford Group, Inc., Oppenheimer & Co., Inc., Piper Jaffray Companies, Roth Capital Partners, LLC, and Thomas Weisel Partners Group, Inc. If we expand our business into new sectors and new business lines, we will face competition from other firms as well. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the scope and quality of services, price, market focus and industry knowledge, client relationships and reputation. Larger firms provide a broader range of investment banking services to their clients than we do. If we do 15 not address these competitive factors successfully, we may not be able to execute our strategy or even maintain our existing market share. In either case, our operating results would suffer as would the price of our common stock. We will likely face competition from larger investment banking firms. In order to compete with them, we may have to increase our operating expenses significantly and/or make larger commitments of capital in our trading and underwriting business. This increases the potential for capital loss, which could adversely impact our operating results. We are a relatively small investment bank. Primarily because of the types of transactions in which we specialize and the relatively small size of those transactions, historically we have tried to avoid competing with larger investment banks. However, we expect this to change as we pursue investment banking opportunities with larger companies and engagements for larger transactions. Larger investment banks not only offer a broader range of products and services than we do, they also have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do, greater name recognition, more senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and may have more established relationships with clients than we have. Thus, they are better able to respond to changes in the investment banking industry, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share. For example, many of our larger competitors have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In addition, financial services firms have begun to make larger and more frequent commitments of capital in many of their activities. In order to win business, they are increasingly committing to purchase large blocks of stock from publicly traded issuers or significant stockholders, instead of the more traditional marketed underwriting process in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. They are willing to provide debt financing out of internal funds, often giving them a significant competitive advantage. Because we do not have the resources to match these investment banking firms, we may be unable to compete as effectively for larger clients and larger transactions. In that case, we may not be able to execute that part of our strategy, which could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our ability to retain our senior professionals and recruit additional professionals is critical to our strategy and our failure to do so may adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to obtain and successfully execute the transactions that generate a significant portion of our revenues depends upon the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our senior professionals. The reputations of our senior professionals and their relationships with our clients are a critical element in obtaining and executing client engagements. Accordingly, retaining these particular employees is critical to our future success and growth. In addition, we may add investment bankers and other financial professionals. However, turnover in the investment banking industry is high and we encounter intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking industry as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds and private equity funds. We have experienced departures of investment banking and other professionals in the past and losses of key employees may occur in the future. As a result of such departures, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services. We cannot assure you that our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel will be successful as the market for qualified financial professionals is extremely competitive. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our compensation arrangements and non-competition and non-solicitation agreements with our key employees are broad or effective enough to deter or prevent employees from resigning, joining or forming competitors or soliciting our clients. Further, we cannot assure you that we could successfully enforce our rights under those agreements. If we are unable to retain our senior professionals and/or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our compensation policy may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our senior managing directors and other key employees, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business. The target for our total compensation and benefits expense is currently 55% of total consolidated cash revenues. This target includes equity, equity-based incentives and other non-cash employee benefits. Our reliance 16 on equity and equity-based incentives for a significant portion of the compensation package we pay to our senior executives may not be effective, especially if the market price of our common stock continues to decline, as it has over the last year. This compensation policy could adversely impact the overall compensation our key employees, including our senior executive officers and managing directors, may receive. Our senior executives and managing directors may receive less compensation under this formula than they otherwise would receive at other firms, which would make it more difficult for us to retain our key employees, including our senior executives and managing directors, and attract new key employees. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Continued growth may place significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial resources. Our rapid growth has caused, and if it continues, will continue to cause, significant demands on our operational, administrative and financial infrastructure and increase our expenses. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our services could suffer, which would adversely affect our operating results and our reputation. If we continue to grow, we will have to hire, train and manage a larger work force and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If the improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our growth will be impaired and we may incur significant additional expenditures to address these issues, further impairing our financial condition and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage growth effectively and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and control expenses. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, and breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances, and, as a result, default risks may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or reasonably guard against. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. If any of the variety of processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. Our operations and infrastructure and those of the service providers upon which we rely may malfunction or fail. We outsource various aspects of our technology infrastructure, including data centers, disaster recovery systems, and wide area networks, as well as some trading applications. We depend on our technology providers to manage and monitor those functions. A disruption of any of the outsourced services would be out of our control and could negatively impact our business. We have experienced disruptions on occasion, none of which has been material to our operations or results. However, we cannot assure you that future disruptions with these providers will not occur or that their impact would not be material. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of relations with any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure, including electrical, communications, transportation and other services, that support our businesses and the area in which we are located. This may affect, among other things, our financial, accounting or other data processing systems. Nearly all of our employees work in close proximity to each other. Although we have a formal disaster recovery plan in place, if a disruption occurs and our employees are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. 17 Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have an adverse impact on their integrity and/or viability. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to make required notifications, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. We may be required to make substantial payments under certain indemnification agreements. In connection with our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation, we entered into agreements that provide for us to indemnify our former members against certain tax liabilities relating to periods before we effected the exchange on July 10, 2007 (the “Exchange”). If we are required to make payments under these indemnification agreements, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, which could materially reduce our revenue or income. Our business, operating results and financial condition has been materially and adversely affected by adverse conditions in the global financial markets and adverse economic conditions throughout the world since the third quarter of 2007. 2008 was particularly difficult, marked by the failure or near failure of a number of large and prestigious firms in the financial services industry. We expect that these conditions will persist well into 2009 and possibly beyond. We have no control over the political events and the global and local economic developments that influence market conditions and dynamics. Our revenues are directly related to the volume and value of investment banking transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and size of these transactions decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking those engagements. Our results of operations have been adversely affected by reductions in the volume and size of corporate finance transactions. Similarly, weakness in equity markets and diminished trading volume of securities have adversely impacted our sales and trading business. Finally, the general decline in the value of securities has adversely impacted our investment portfolio. Our profitability has also been adversely affected by our fixed costs and our inability to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to market and economic conditions. Significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements may result in fewer public offerings and discourage companies from engaging in capital market transactions, which may reduce the number of investment banking opportunities available for us to pursue. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted the U.S. Congress, the SEC, NYSE and NASDAQ to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forego public offerings or elect to be listed on foreign markets, our underwriting business may be adversely affected. In addition, provisions of SOX and the corporate governance rules imposed by self-regulatory organizations and stock exchanges have diverted the attention of many companies away from capital market transactions, including securities offerings and acquisition and disposition transactions. In particular, companies that either are or are planning to become public companies are incurring significant expenses in complying with the SEC reporting requirements relating to internal controls over financial reporting, and companies that disclose material weaknesses in such controls under the new standards may have greater difficulty accessing the capital markets. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting and disclosure changes, may have an adverse effect on our business. 18 Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. The financial services industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE, NASDAQ, FINRA and state attorney generals. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including, but not limited to, the authority to fine us and to grant, cancel, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on the right to carry on particular businesses. For example, a failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Exchange Act on broker-dealers and the Investment Advisers Act on investment advisers, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, or by the Investment Company Act of 1940, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities, FINRA or other self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have adverse financial effects on us or harm our reputation, which could harm our business prospects. Financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted, and regularly review and update, various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts. However, appropriately addressing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to appropriately address conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs and additional operational personnel. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or litigation against us. For example, the research operations of investment banks have been and remain the subject of heightened regulatory scrutiny which has led to increased restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking professionals at securities firms. A number of securities firms in the United States reached a global settlement in 2003 and 2004 with certain federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into the alleged conflicts of interest of research analysts, which resulted in rules that have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our business. PIPE transactions have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny over the last few years. To the extent the investor interest is reduced as a result, our business will be adversely affected. A significant factor in our growth to date has been our leading position as placement agent in PIPE transactions. These transactions usually can be accomplished in less time and at less cost than registered public offerings. Various regulatory and governmental agencies, including the SEC, have been reviewing PIPE transactions. Periodically, we receive requests for information from the SEC and other regulatory and governmental agencies regarding PIPEs in general or regarding specific transactions. In most cases, these communications include a request for copies of transaction documents. We always comply with these requests. If the SEC or any other regulatory agency promulgates regulations that make it more difficult or expensive to consummate PIPE transactions, investors and issuers may prefer other financing strategies, such as registered public offerings. Since underwriting registered public offerings has not historically been a significant source of revenue for us, any decline in the number of PIPE transactions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages and other costs that we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and regulatory inquiries, and the reputational harm that could result from legal action against us, could adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been significant. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, employment claims, potential liability for “fairness 19 opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. As an investment banking firm, we depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and professionalism to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging to our business than to other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or mergers and acquisitions transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and acquisitions and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including our clients’ stockholders who could bring securities class action suits against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services. However, there can be no assurance that these provisions will protect us or be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could harm our results of operations or harm our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. Over the past number of years, there have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and there is a risk that our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, we often deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees would adversely affect us and our clients. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If our employees engage in misconduct, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Historically, there has been a limited public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will ever develop or be sustained. Since October 16, 2007, our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, trading under the symbol “RODM”. Our stock is thinly traded. We cannot assure you that an established and liquid trading market for our stock will ever develop or continue if it does develop. Accordingly, investors should consider the potential lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of an investment in our common stock prior to investing. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Since October 16, 2007, the day our stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, through March 10, 2009, the closing sales price of our common stock has fluctuated from $6.25 to $0.19. This wide range could be attributable to a number of factors including one or more of the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations; the success or failure of our operating strategies and our perceived prospects and those of the financial services industry in general; realization of any of the risks described in this section; failure to be covered by securities analysts or failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts; a decline in the stock prices of peer companies; and 20 a discount in the trading multiple of our common stock relative to that of common stock of certain of our peer companies due to perceived risks associated with our smaller size. As a result, shares of our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid to acquire them. Furthermore, declines in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to conduct future offerings or to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors and other key professional employees. If we are unable to satisfy Nasdaq’s Maintenance Requirements, including a bid price of not less than $1.00 that we are currently out of compliance with, our common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq, which could impair the liquidity and the value of our common stock. While the shares of our common stock met current Nasdaq listing requirements when initially listed and are currently included on Nasdaq, there can be no assurance that we will meet the criteria for continued listing. Continued listing on Nasdaq generally requires that (i) we maintain at least $2,500,000 in stockholders equity, or $35,000,000 in market capitalization, or $500,000 in net income for either the last fiscal year, or two out of the last three fiscal years, (ii) the minimum bid price of our common stock be $1.00 per share, (iii) there be at least 500,000 shares in the public float valued at $1,000,000 or more, (iv) our common stock has at least two active market makers, and (v) our common stock be held by at least 300 holders. In December 2008, in response to market conditions, Nasdaq announced a moratorium on delisting proceedings against listed companies based solely on the failure to maintain compliance with the minimum $1.00 bid price requirement. This moratorium is in effect until April 20, 2009 and there is no assurance that Nasdaq will extend it. Our common stock is currently traded under $1.00, and if we are unable to satisfy Nasdaq’s maintenance requirements, our securities may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. In that event, trading, if any, in our common stock would be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or the NASD’s “OTC Bulletin Board.” Consequently, the liquidity of our securities could be impaired, not only in the number of securities which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, reduction in security analysts and new media coverage of us, and lower prices for our securities than might otherwise be obtained. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades us or the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock will probably decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage altogether, we could lose visibility, which could also lead to a decline in the price of our common stock. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us, which could adversely impact the price of our common stock. Our organizational documents may contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us. The Board of Directors may have the ability to take defensive measures that could impede or thwart a takeover such as, under certain circumstances, adopting a poison pill or causing us to issue preferred stock that has greater voting rights than our common stock. If a change of control or change in management that our stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment. We are controlled by a limited number of stockholders whose interests may differ from those of our other stockholders. 21 As of February 28, 2009, our largest stockholder, Paul Revere, LLC (“Revere”), owns approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. Revere is owned one-third by our Chief Executive Officer and President and two-thirds by a trust, the beneficiaries of which are the wife and children of our Vice Chairman. In addition, our other senior executive officers collectively own approximately 7% of our common stock. As a result, our public stockholders have limited influence over the election of directors, management, company policies or major corporate decisions that require the consent of stockholders owning a majority of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, such as mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This could adversely impact the market value of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 