ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our liquidation and dissolution because such factors may have a significant impact on the execution of our plan of dissolution and the timing and amount of liquidating distributions, if any, to our stockholders. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you of the exact amount or timing of any future distribution to our stockholders under the plan of dissolution. The liquidation and dissolution process is subject to numerous uncertainties and may not result in any remaining capital for future distribution to our stockholders. The precise nature, amount and timing of any future distribution to our stockholders will primarily depend on and could be delayed by the resolution of the outstanding IPO litigation matter. Other secondary matters that could affect any future distributions include, among other things, sales of our non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors, resolution of outstanding litigation matters and unexpected or greater than expected expenses. Furthermore, we cannot provide any assurance that we will actually make additional distributions. The estimates we have provided are based on currently available information, and actual payments, if any, could be substantially less than the amount we have estimated. Any amounts to be distributed to our stockholders may be less than the price or prices at which our common stock has recently traded or may trade in the future. Our common stock is continuing to trade even though we are in the process of liquidation and liquidating distributions, if any, may be below any trading price. Until December 4, 2003, when our certificate of dissolution became effective and we voluntarily de-listed our common stock and closed our transfer books, our common stock was traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol “TSTN.” Since the de-listing, our common stock has been trading in the Over the Counter Market’s “pink sheets” under the symbol “TSTN.PK.” It has been trading under “due-bill” contractual obligations between the seller and purchaser of the stock, who negotiate and rely on themselves with respect to the allocation of stockholder proceeds arising from ownership of the shares. No assignments or transfers of our common stock were recorded or will be recorded after December 4, 2003. Trading in our stock is highly speculative and the market for our stock is highly illiquid. The only value associated with our shares is the right to receive further distributions as part of the liquidation process. Because of the difficulty in estimating the amount and timing of the liquidating distributions, and due to the other risk factors discussed herein, our common stock may be subject to significant volatility and may trade above the amount of any liquidating distribution that is made. 5 Table of Contents We may not be able to settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all of our outstanding litigation. If we do not settle all of our obligations to creditors and resolve all of our outstanding litigation, we may be prevented from completing our plan of dissolution. Our obligations to creditors may include, among other things, contractual obligations to certain of our vendors. Our outstanding litigation consists of the IPO federal securities class action litigation. As part of the wind down process, we will attempt to settle our obligations with our creditors and resolve all of the outstanding litigation. However, with respect to the IPO federal securities class action litigation, we are uncertain whether a class settlement will be available in the future and/or whether plaintiffs will litigate against each of the defendant issuers, including us, one by one if a class action cannot be certified. Plaintiffs in the class action lawsuit have claimed damages in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Our inability to reach settlement with our creditors and resolve outstanding litigation could delay or even prevent us from completing the plan of dissolution. Moreover, amounts required to settle our obligations to creditors and resolve any outstanding litigation will reduce the amount of remaining capital available for future distribution to stockholders. We will continue to incur claims, liabilities and expenses that will reduce the amount available for distribution out of the liquidation to stockholders. Claims, liabilities and expenses incurred during the wind down process, such as legal, accounting and consulting fees and miscellaneous office expenses, will reduce the amount of assets available for future distribution out of the liquidation to stockholders. If available cash and amounts received on the sale of non-cash assets are not adequate to provide for our obligations, liabilities, expenses and claims, we may not be able to distribute out of the liquidation meaningful cash, or any cash at all, to our stockholders. Distribution of assets out of the liquidation, if any, to our stockholders could be delayed. We are currently unable to predict the precise timing of any liquidating distributions. The timing of such distributions will depend on and could be delayed by, among other things, the resolution of the outstanding IPO litigation matter, the timing of sales of our non-cash assets, claim settlements with creditors and the settlement of any other outstanding litigation matters. Additionally, a creditor could seek an injunction against the making of such distributions to our stockholders on the ground that the amounts to be distributed were needed to provide for the payment of our liabilities and expenses. Any action of this type could delay or substantially diminish the amount available for such distribution to our stockholders. If we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each stockholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of his or her pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such stockholder. We filed our certificate of dissolution with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effective December 4, 2003. Pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, we will continue to exist for three years after the certificate of dissolution is filed or for such longer period as the Delaware Court of Chancery shall direct, for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits against us and enabling us gradually to close our business, to dispose of our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, in the event we fail to create during this three-year period an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our expenses and liabilities, each stockholder could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such stockholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve, up to the amount actually distributed to such stockholder. Although the liability of any stockholder is limited to the amounts previously received by such stockholder from us (and from any liquidating trust or trusts) in the dissolution, this means that a stockholder could be required to return all distributions previously made to such stockholder and receive nothing from us under the plan of dissolution. Moreover, in the event a stockholder has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a stockholder incurring a net tax cost if the stockholder’s repayment of an amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable. While we will endeavor to make adequate reserves for all known, contingent, and unknown liabilities, there is no guarantee that the reserves established by us will be adequate to cover all such expenses and liabilities. 6 Table of Contents We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, referred to as the “Exchange Act,” even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. We have sought and will continue to attempt to seek relief from the Securities and Exchange Commission from the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, but to date we have not been successful in obtaining relief. We anticipate that, if such relief were granted, we would continue to file current reports on Form 8-K to disclose material events relating to our liquidation and dissolution along with any other reports that the Securities and Exchange Commission might require. However, the Securities and Exchange Commission may not grant any such relief, and we do not anticipate we will be successful in obtaining relief while active trading of our shares is continuing. Our board of directors may at any time turn management of the liquidation of Turnstone Systems over to a third party, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. Our board of directors may at any time turn our management over to a third party to complete the liquidation of our remaining assets and distribute the available proceeds to our stockholders, and some or all of our directors may resign from our board at that time. Our board of directors currently consists of Eric S. Yeaman, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and Albert Y. Liu, our General Counsel and Director of Human Resources, who are overseeing our liquidation on a consulting basis. If management is turned over to a third party and all of our directors resign from our board, the third party would have sole control over the liquidation process, including the sale or distribution of any remaining assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be subject to substantial regulation that would cause us to incur additional expenses and reduce the amount of assets available for distribution. If we invest our cash and/or cash equivalents in investment securities, we may be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act because of our investment securities holdings, we must register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. As a registered investment company, we would be subject to the further regulatory oversight of the Division of Investment Management of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and our activities would be subject to substantial regulation under the Investment Company Act. Compliance with these regulations would cause us to incur additional expenses, which would reduce the amount of assets available for distribution to our stockholders. To avoid these compliance costs, we intend to invest our cash proceeds in money market funds and government securities, which are exempt from the Investment Company Act but which currently provide a very modest return. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 